Unknown 0:00
Have you ever people are having trouble? Hi, welcome to class. I'm gonna go to the roster in a moment and mispronounce your names but first I'm calling this is me and make it easy, which is common common. Everybody does. It's fine. It's common column. Okay? That way you don't have to think about it's Colin Dodi by the way, because people do pronounce mispronounce my name sometimes. But I prefer Colin. That way. It's easy to remember. So just call me back and I'll call you whatever you want. me to call you. Be fair. i This is the second time I've done this class relatively new to USC. Last fall. I also teach in their digital media management program. We did this class in this exact room last time, which is going to be weird for me because I won't remember whether I've covered usually, like computers on the different side and you think oh, well, I'll remember that. I haven't talked about this but in the exact same room the exact same class. I'll be like, I mentioned this to you guys. And I don't love because I use that board a lot. I don't love their back forward is there I think you're fine where you're sitting but just keep in mind and you'll see it today. We'll do a lot of work. We'll brainstorm together and write things on that board. I'll have slides appear. So just make sure that you're sitting somewhere, think you're fine, where you can see both of those things. Okay. I got my PhD in Information Studies. Maybe some of you have a similar background, that a small school on the other side of town called UCLA. know if any of you are aware of the sports rivalry between USC and UCLA but on the football field, we hate each other. But I don't have a sports fan actually. I think this is a great school and I'm honored to teach here just as I'm honored to be the graduate of it. I was going over several towns we just have PAC put that aside, but you saw it no problem. Come on. Here. So yeah, so UCLA, an Information Studies program, and that's where I got my PhD. That brings me into teaching classes like this. And we're going to talk in a minute about like the point of this class, which has literally the worst name in the history of college classes. I did not name it and you will get that anyway, what is this class? Well, I My background is really digital media. And I teach and have taught a lot of Media Studies kinds of things I didn't really comes through a traditional comm background. I am not a data scientist, nor am I a computer scientist, which sometimes students are surprised to hear but what I am is a social scientist. And this class is a social science class about the ways that we will apply these theories it says theoretical blah, blah, blah, blah design projects, okay? Just think about the theory and the design, right, this word theoretical and this word design. What this class is really about, is all of you are presumably going to go out and work as data scientists soon, really soon, it'll come back. And when you do, you'll be working on data science projects and designing those projects you need. To design one for this class. And the idea is, we're going to give you a background of theory this semester that will help you to think very smart way about data science. If you had a chance to do the readings this week, and I really hope that you did the latter two readings the whole chapter about data and the one about the state of the art of AI in 2023. There is a lot of issues, right a lot of problems that we might encounter with the about AI feedback data thinking about data science. Part of the point of this class and of having a social scientist teach it is to give you the background to not make the mistakes that we have made in data science in the past we're not overlook, don't want to call them mistakes, not overlook the problems that data science has run into. And the more you're aware of that and the more you think about the different ways you can approach it the better, more ethical, better for the world. Data scientists you will be right so this is a social science class. Now I'm not ignorant to data science or computer science. But probably there are many of you who are tech easier and more Cody than I am which is great and I welcome your experience. But we're gonna talk a lot about theory and social science and how those things apply. And so whatever backgrounds you come from, which I'm gonna hear about in a minute, will be great and welcome here. Okay. I don't know. Has anyone ever heard of that communication scholars? See live audience often out of Virginia? American communication scholarships. Yeah, he's written several books. And one of the books he wrote is about Facebook, and he says that Mark Zuckerberg is a very smart man, but he's profoundly uneducated. This is what CBO said about Zuckerberg. And his point being that he should have taken a class. Right? That he you probably know, he went to Harvard. Like, you gotta be pretty smart to go to Harvard. And then he dropped out, because he started Facebook when he was at Harvard, and he goes on and ruins the world with Facebook. We're mixed. Right? But what supervised enough in the scholar says about him as he wishes that he had thought more about the ethics and the theory and the social science and like thought more about what am I getting myself into by building this monster called Facebook that ultimately buys up all these other monsters and becomes meta. Right? What am I? What are the implications of the work that I'm doing in my dorm in Hartford and, and body knots and wishes that Zuckerberg had no more and thought more? So part of what this class is so that no one ever says about you that you are undereducated. Believe me you're gonna work very hard here you will not feel undereducated. So that is that makes sense. It's like what this weird name means. It means like let's do data science. But also let's do data science in society. And with a relationship to society that makes it as the last reading I gave you says like the last sentence of it, I think, it makes it a tool that is good for us. Because we all love data, and AI, and all the stuff we can do. There's so many great things. We got to be careful here. And so this will hopefully help us think about how can we be careful in what we design and also careful not in the sense of don't ruin the world but design a thing that's really going to do what we want it to do, and really help the people that we want to tell right, and hopefully thinking through the theories of communication that started before we have any of the computers or algorithms or any things that we'll talk about a lot and how those ideas come forward into 2023 and in the ways that we use and think about data and data processing now. Make sense? So that's a little background on me and the class. And if you have any quick questions about that, or me or the class, we'll go through the syllabus. I'll tell you what we're in for all that stuff. Makes sense as an approach like now you get while you're here. How many of you first year I think you all first year did they come data science majors? Anybody? Not? You are okay. I choose the questions.

Unknown 7:31
Film maker, also.

Unknown 7:35
Okay, so you're not a first year grad student but your first year in this program. Okay. Okay. That's why I thought sometimes there are people that are a little better. How many of you first time in graduate school? Right this week? That's a lot. Good. It's good. It's okay. It's hard work. You can do it. You're very smarter. You wouldn't be sitting here. They don't let in people who aren't very smart. So the fact that you're sitting here already is a huge accomplishment. You should be proud of yourselves and from here on out. It's just hard work. It's not like it's that's not that hard work. But I'm going to now go through the Soul update idea roster and say your names and then later we'll learn a little bit about you and have some conversations. I hope because some people that by the way, this class was supposed to be 22. And they added a student or two because so many students wanted to be here. So there may be one or two of you who didn't get an email and didn't do the work and I get that but there wasn't a very short, hopefully easy assignment today in addition to the reading, which was to think about write about what communication data science means to you. I am going to ask you to talk about that really briefly in a moment. So not right now. I'm not don't don't get scared yet. But if you didn't realize you had to do it. Forgot about it can't remember where you saved it on your computer. I just wanted to give you a little notice. I'm not you can read it if you want to. But just the idea is we're gonna go on the board and we're going to talk about what we all think communication data sciences and why we're here and we're gonna start there when we get to the learning part. Okay, but first, let me just try to get the names of who is here. Forgive me for mispronouncing your name. If you have a nickname that you would like me to call you, please tell me. If you have pronouns you want me to know. You can tell me or you can tell me privately if you prefer to or abstain whatever you'd like to do. I need just in general information about how you want me to address yours like I said, please call me Colin I will call you if you would like to become okay. So let's try. Ji

Unknown 9:48
Yan joy, Choice. Choice. Okay, thank you. See, I'm already pronounced with that. King you should be one of us. But this guy talks funny. How King King you QINGY eu

Unknown 10:23
Yeah, what you said? No, nobody. Okay, sorry. Hello. Brian. Okay, you got my Ryan. Thank you Hello Alice yourselves without me trying to do it. But I also talked about data as we go so we can start wherever we'd work. And here's what I'd like to know about you. I'd like you to tell me the name that you just told me to call it here. Okay. And I'd like to know what your other degrees are hearing sounds like a lot of you first time in graduate school. So what is your bachelor's degree and but if you have another degree like Simpson, you know, another Master's and I want you all to hear what the backgrounds of the people in this room are. Some people have communication backgrounds or bachelors of communication which is great you'll recognize a lot of stuff we do. Some people come from incredibly wild places with backgrounds that you wouldn't imagine and that's great too, and it's just good to hear. Okay, so the third thing is I want you to tell me what your personal view of communication data science is like what the homework What does communication data science means? Okay, so thing one, what should I call you think to, what degrees do you have? What is your educational background? And thing three, what does communication data science mean to make sense? So what I'm going to write up here is only the last part we're just going to talk about what data science and communication data science, so I don't care where we start, who wants to start? Name, backgrounds, that

Unknown 12:05
is ours and communications, so that my first year is in visual social media Major. This is a second year at adipur and the communication data science for me is when I started on social media and doing some intern, I found that I will be more into the analyst area so I knew that if I can combine the social media and also the data science with especially analytical tools and analytical methods, so I hope this major can help me to have a more fixed track for my future career.

Unknown 13:01
Okay. So, what I'm doing is taking the some of the main ideas about what communication data science means and putting them up here and tomorrow present and neither one of them is working. So hopefully, we're gonna try for them now see how that goes. Okay, so analysis that maybe communication data sciences analysis tools and methods that social media is one of the places where we might do that analysis if we're talking communication, data science, right. wants to get to we just go down this way, or jump around back

Unknown 13:45
for shorting degrees, Journalism and Communication, sociology, since this is about how video proceedings can protect research agencies, so my interest is in how our modern knowledge is produced and impacting our lives. So we're gonna sit in on a state of some small, logical, Paragon research. So I think the communication has some sort of way to combine the data science and social science and in turn to receive

Unknown 14:31
okay

Unknown 14:37
here's PLI intuition. Make don't get markers that work. I have some of my own Did you see I tried three different markers. Okay. Thanks. Thank you, sir. methodological paradigm. Wow, that is a good marker right there. Okay. You guys read this? Okay. All right. So, already, some of you are thinking was what I was gonna say, which is fine. You can double up and say I agree that it's specific. Don't worry about the West is worried about whatever you whatever your story is, even if someone else's next.

Unknown 15:22
Communication and this will mainly put us

Unknown 15:26
in London market and all that it's very interesting and I really liked numbers. So that's how my interest started. Then I really like identifying patterns behind how human mind works. Like, why do people who buy bacon go for bread? It's obvious that they're making the breakfast. That's why they do it. So I really love I will find the patterns behind how humans think. So I really want to combine human the way human brain thinks with data, so that I believe everyone has a story and I think I can address those needs with data sets. So that's why

Unknown 16:12
I said you guys are smart and you come with me and he's I'm gonna run out of board to write them on. I might have to get on my knees but that's okay. We'll find space.

Unknown 16:20
Hi, my name is Alice. I studied public relations and Japanese at Boston University. And when I think about common data science, Very similar to lean I'd like to to split into two parts communication and data science. and I like to see that other science is playing a supporting role to communication, especially I come from like communication background and throw a couple inches.

Unknown 16:45
over the weekend. Right? Weather data is a kind of data science and the people who are telling us whether we should go inside or we were going to flood we're doing data science. What are they doing? Communication, data science. mean they were trying to communicate data, right? So like where are the boundaries of these things are of you know, more traditional ideas of data and computer science versus more artistic telling of stories and the kinds of games and media and that kind of stuff like that is part of what we think about all along here. And how the communication theory can help do I think there's a lot of great ideas and then we could spend all day trying to underscore the ones that seem see, but it seems like a lot of people are thinking of communication itself as the data. Right, like looking at the way media works or the way customers work for whatever and how do we study communication and use back do data science on communication? And a lot of people are also thinking of the ways in which data science can help you communicate better. Right, so it's like one is data science, where communication is the data and the other is data science as a way to do communication better. And I think it's both of those things. Because visualization like the weather people were doing for us is taking data and communicating. Doesn't that seem like communication data science? But also all of you who spoke about digital journalism and gender today I art and understanding customers and the media and the entertainment industry? Are you talking about taking communication and using it as data? Right? Maybe it's both and I'm oversimplifying so much. But I think we can think of both of those things as we go forward and how these theories might help us both to communicate better and to understand communication. Is there anything that came up in this conversation that just surprised you or that you didn't think about? As we were talking? Yeah,

Unknown 18:54
yeah, I'm quite confused about what exactly is digital media. Could you just please give me a very concrete example like, like newspapers, not really, like. So what about short videos and others? What exactly that so

Unknown 19:12
I will frustrate you and then I'll answer your question. The frustrating thing is, words like media are extremely complicated to really define. As you can see, the whole communication data science field took us a whole board and I don't know that we did it. But generally, I think I mean, when I say that my background is in digital media, I think, in very simple terms, means all the things that we used to think of as media, which can be television and journalism and movies and all that stuff. Taken out of the form that was one scan, and literally being in the form of zeros and ones and computers. And then you network that together. So basically, media that we consume in digital devices. Is that a simple enough way to think about it again, over simplified, but that's, I think, what we mean media towards a form, the actual form that the media is in is digital. We're going to talk about materiality overthrew the Sagas and a little bit quickly and we'll talk a lot about like, what is the I can hold paper in my hands, right? That's media I can hold film in my hand. What is what is digital media like grab it? Yeah. Any other like, areas of this that hadn't crossed your mind or just things that like your mind is opens a date or was it more or less what you were thinking? I mean, it's both interesting to think about how different the views were and also the ways in which there were overlaps, like a lot of journalism, a lot of business, a lot of marketing, a lot of that kind of stuff. Yeah.

Unknown 20:50
Another question about why is paradoxical in patient communication.

Unknown 20:58
Who said this, I can't remember Yeah. Remind us what you meant by.

Unknown 21:09
systematical systematic education from a social science perspective, because they will teach you some very basic methodology of sociology that you will not be so expert. And so those are called qualitative research methods. But on the other hand, it's hard to learn about in science, you will find that you do like just what we read in the news today, the chapter like if you're hard to identify with a technological view of those engineers, because you kind of think that we should have new value or we should have a target or goal of what the society should be like. And then it will feel very difficult to fully invest your time in, like developing a software or appreciating an algorithm that's proved to be efficient, but what you don't think of as good. So I think that is what I mean by Will.

Unknown 22:15
make more sense, and you know, this is a thing quantitative and qualitative came up a lot. And I think another key idea with communication data science is that communication, you can think of is a very qualitative thing. Even though there's a lot of studying of it with quantitative methods that like, it is human beings, as many of you said, right, and I think I even put a quotes around it when someone said it was human or humans, right, humans or animals or whatever, right? Communication is a qualitative thing that we don't think of in terms of numbers and data. Data science, on the other hand, is the other way around. So you can say communication is qualitative. Data science is quantitative and maybe what we are doing is taking a qualitative thing and trying to think of it in quantitative terms, which can be super useful and super problematic at the same time, right? Great, because we're going to understand it. Somebody back here said Adam was talking about accuracy. Like, we're gonna be able to understand human communication better if we can use big datasets, but what are we understanding like? What is the data who are the data? Right? And to what extent are we being accurate when we're talking about humans and technology? And relationships? Any other just thoughts about what that all means? or new insights that you hadn't thought about? Yes, what's your opinion? I mean, I told you I think, you know, that the layering of data as a way to communicate better and communication as itself building data. I mean, I love it go through quickly, like there are things you know, I think analysis is key. I think the tools and methodologies are key. I think the differences between quantitative and qualitative but part of what you get about this year is how, how much stuff we think we can think about and ask questions about with this work. Because there's, there's look at all the different things we said we could study, we can study communication, we can study social media, we can study policy, we can study sounds we can study art, we can study I mean that I just like there's so many different things. So I, I think in what in a way it's simple, but it's also because communication is not simple, because communication is ideas, and in some ways, taking data from my head and trying to put that data into your head, right. And so, because that is complicated, I don't want to oversimplify what communication data sciences, I want all of those answers to be right, because I think they are. I hope that isn't a frustrating answer. Right? It can be all of these things if we think of it as a, a toolkit of tools. And methods to study in certain ways around communication, and what are we studying all of these communication related things art, journalism, media, entertainment, using technology using data using big data? We'll talk about that stuff a lot. Okay. It's not helpful. Any other thoughts about this? There's no right answer. Sorry. It's not a math class. It's a social science class. Social Science is not full of right answers. I'm afraid. It's full of really, really good questions. Let's talk because I do want to take a break. Because I know your range of time. Let's just talk about the basic administration of this class. Okay. I will say more about all of this stuff as we go. But a couple of things I want to highlight the student learning outcomes I don't know how much attention any of you pick it as we build syllabi around this. This is the point of this class. And we talked about this a little bit, I want to point out a couple of things, applying communication theories in the design of a feasible and executable project of the students choosing. So part of what this is about this class, is you doing a communication data science project, whatever you think that means, and having theories that you can apply. So the final paper which we'll talk about more, you are going to come up with a communication data science project. Way more detailed to come on and you're going to write about it and explain what you're thinking like last year, we had people would do apps, for example. So here's an app I want to design and then explain the exact theories you are applying how you are applying them and how they affect the design of the thing that you've done. Like we had sit down with Zuckerberg and say, number which we learned in ethics. What does that make you want to do with Facebook? Right? How are you gonna apply this ethical theory to the design of defense? Okay, so that's where the ultimately the goal of this class what your final project will be is right here, applying theories in the design of the feasible and executable project. It also talks about developing theoretically grounded improvements and solutions to instances of exclusion discrimination, systemic bias. I said this before, but part of what this class will hopefully do is allow you to have theory and apply theory in a way that makes the stuff better and makes its relationship to society. You can improve the tools and you can improve things like exclusion, discrimination and bias which are the effect of the tools on society. Go into some of the later readings that you did, right? skipping through a lot of this, which is not to say that it isn't important, but I wanted to just highlight a few things. Okay, a couple of quick administrative things. computers in the classroom. I mean, in this class, how can I say no computers? I don't say that in any class. But this is a class about a few things in many ways. So of course, they're welcome to be here. I just ask that you use them to be in the room. Not to be out of there, man. Is it easy to chat? Check tic tock and to do your other stuff, right. Don't be in a room. And if you jump on Google really quickly and look up something we're talking about to bring in the conversation and understand better that's awesome because that is you using the tool to be here, but I don't want you to be just floating off watching somebody else and not paying attention to what we do in the room. Okay. Because both what we talked about in class and what you read about together should help you understand the theories so that you'll be able to see them apply, and we'll talk a lot when we do a theory I'll say, how does this apply to the work you want to do with communication data science, and hopefully you'll be able to say, Oh, I think I can apply it this way or that way. And if you're not paying attention in class, you're going to miss a lot of the application. So the machines are to be here to be with us to be tool stairs. The second thing is generative AI and using a chat GPT and stuff like that. Never was a problem for me. I've had a number of students turn in work that I know was written by algorithms. Okay, so I hate that I have to say this. Don't use those tools to do your work for you. You can use them to support your work. And in fact, we will talk about them read about them and I will give you an assignment later to actually use because how could we not in this class? So using chat should be key and asking like what is checked up TV communication, data science, correct? Because then you can confess I used it and this is what it said. That's a wonderful way to use it because you're supportive. What I don't want you to do is have it write your homework for you and turn it here. Okay, because I'll say

Transcribed by https://otter.ai