Unknown 0:00
Okay, so what are the classes are using? And can you pass it the 32? Yeah. Are you all in the same class with classes or any programming? Learning? Okay, that'll be useful. What else other than machine learning programming? Yeah. So some of your programming and some of your machine learning intro guys, okay, so different, different classes of Iturbi like you're all here. Okay, well, machine learning will come. I mean, all that stuff will come up for machine learning. I think in particular, we'll talk about today so let me figure out who's here because we've had some we lost a cup on game couple so we'll see who we have our choice Ester Ryan, Alice Nike jeans Oh, wait. We have to read. What's your last name? Yeah, okay. We have Cinzia who weighing different places sia Mia Julia that's so bad. It was funny. Okay, sorry Shang Zhou Shan nee is on the way okay. Katherine. It's my fault. Ellen thankee Cheney

Unknown 2:23
Thank you. You named John. Everyone

Unknown 2:42
okay, and then I think we have to did before Channing. Channing, Sue.

Unknown 2:53
Do you know everyone is my classmate. And shooting Okay. You go by shooting. Okay, call me call. Anybody I didn't call. I call you you're not involved. Are you getting down to the

Unknown 3:26
to the highs should we get this weekend? I mean, the register dead Yeah. Do you want to call your checking out first?

Unknown 3:40
What's your name? That's fine. Anybody didn't call. Okay. So, so today Sure. We're finding your niche? Yeah. Um, you can. You weren't here last week at all right? You weren't even about you. Okay. Fine. We can catch up much easier. Good. So, what do we think of the readings this generally makes sense? Not terribly hard. How many of you have already heard about the ideas of system organ systems? pretty famous idea you may run across before and if you haven't researched, make sure in this program that you run across that idea. So what we're going to do today is we're going to talk about our brains or our hearts and what we understand about how our brains work. And why are we going to talk about our brains, ultimately, to try by the end of class today to make a really strong connection between what we understand about our brains and data science? Maybe some of you have already started to make those connections hopefully thinking through the way the readings kind of progressed, often will view progression like that, where we're sort of start with some basic theories about just generally the way we think we're generally whatever and then get closer to more like the last paper for Christian paper was about data science and algorithms and hopefully you can kind of see the themes recurring that it sort of makes sense for you as we went, Okay. The other thing I want to do is at the end of that

Unknown 5:37
at the end of class, for next week, you'll have you'll have the first sort of real assignment. I haven't looked at it, hopefully you will go and do the assignment about the honesty policy I just uploaded. It's very straightforward and easy. We're gonna have a real assignment for next week, but I really don't mean hard. I don't think it's difficult at all. It's just a little more work thinking about some of the concepts that you're going to read about for next week. So before the end of class, don't be afraid to walk you through how that's gonna get your readings and assignments. Okay, but for today, let's start with an easy question. The Easy question is what is knowledge? not such an easy question. Maybe Maybe I was joking. What is already tested that marker and it still doesn't work? What is knowledge? Let's see if we can figure out what knowledge is because, you know, we're talking about our brains. Does anybody want to take a shot at defining knowledge? Now just it's a great phrase, but it isn't literally like there's knowledge and literally mean the same thing as

Unknown 6:59
me. Yeah. Like, do you ever think about knowledge as how it is constructed and how it has value to other people and basically, like, It entails How are you able to process knowledge?

Unknown 7:11
Okay. So it's bits both sort of humorous to think that but also kind of very true, that maybe knowledge and power are not literal synonyms. They don't literally mean the same thing. But I think it is important as we talked about a little bit last week. When is power narcs important to knowledge? Right? When it seems like what we know how we know who gets to say what we know all that stuff, power is always part of. So we always have to think about that. But as a definition of what knowledge is when you say I went to USC and I got some good knowledge, what did you say? I got some good experience experience okay? Is knowledge the same as experience though?

Unknown 7:59
Information Who else wants to take a crack at what knowledge is sorry, capability, capability Okay, skills, roles, theory.

Unknown 8:24
Observation.

Unknown 8:29
Now, as you're typing faster than I can write, which I love, I love how many great ideas there are. Just give me one second perspective. Okay, can I get them all? Sorry, facts, okay. Anything else? Opinions to tolerate on the bottom of the board. Sorry, methodology Okay. So are these first of all, any others application application?

Unknown 9:20
Are these all like the definition of knowledge? Or are these just sort of things that are related to knowledge like is knowledge the same as experience? Experience as part of knowledge, but it's not the same thing, right. It's like if we did a Venn diagram of knowledge and experience, right, okay. So important powers, important experiences important is information the same as knowledge. The words mean the same thing? No, okay. What about capability? See where I'm going with this? Right? Every one of these things on this list is an important part of what we think of as knowledge. Is there any word on this list? That means the same thing as the word knowledge means?

Unknown 10:04
No, you're Yes. So if we're gonna define knowledge, right like if you want to say, you know, what's a cat and gotta say,

Unknown 10:16
it's not pet. It's not an animal. Those are part of it. But cat is very specific thing. It's a fluffy, cute thing with four legs in two years. Right and hammer Well, right. So we still all these things are part of what we think of as knowledge, but none of them is actually even if you add them all up, maybe none of them is the definition. So if you say I got knowledge, through experience, through information through my capability, I got knowledge of skills, I got knowledge of rules, theories, all these things, I can apply my knowledge what did you get what is knowledge me?

Unknown 10:51
I think knowledge is all over the things that helps you. You learn from others or learn by yourself to help you understand the world better and to help you live in the world.

Unknown 11:01
Okay, so is knowledge is knowledge understanding the world?

Unknown 11:19
Is that what knowledge is and living in therefore being able to live in the world better to be like that definition? So in other words, I went to USC I got some experience that helps me to understand the world better and within the world better I went to USC and I got some capabilities that allow me to live in the world better and experience the world better. I got some applications methodologies and theories, right. All these things. I did some observation, whatever, right? Does that seem like that's a good definition. Knowledge is an understanding of the world. You're all looking at me like no idea what? It doesn't sound wrong. But does not mean it doesn't sound right. Does it sound right? I think it's pretty here. I was waiting for you to tell me. You're not I'll tell you. However. Is there any limit like do you want to add anything to it? Or do you tell us anything about it? Like when I say I learned in school some knowledge do I mean, I now understand the world differently than I did before I got the knowledge like this definition. Okay. Close enough. Let me tell you want that. You guys know what a piston ology is heard of the phrase epistemology my big Greek word is gemology. Some of you heard of this word. It's a nice graduate school word for your epistemology is essentially ology always means the study of rights from Greek. So epistemology is the study of knowledge and study of how we know things that study and what we know, right? You're not like, Oh, I knew like this before. So what does anybody know what the epistemological definition of knowledge is? Anybody taken my class where you talked about this? No. Maybe it'll ring a bell. Sometimes they call it the JTB.

Unknown 13:24
Just so you have heard it, I knew it. I knew it. Okay, so JTP for epistemology stands for justified. What's the T? True and what's the B? Belief? Okay. philosophers who think about knowledge define it this way. Now, to be really clear, there are a lot of people who don't love this definition either. But let's think about this justified true belief. Is that another way of saying understanding of the world, like are these pretty close to the same idea? Pretty close. Okay, but maybe understanding the world broken down into components that might help us to mean like when we say understand the world, you know what I'm going to do to your now knowledge means understanding the world What does understanding mean?

Unknown 14:17
Awareness justified true belief, maybe maybe, right? It's a good way to think of what an understanding might be

Unknown 14:27
a question about the true power. Okay, I'm not 100% Sure, applying to the knowledge in every time but when we look back, a lot of knowledge is not true. Right. Should we put a parenthesis across it?

Unknown 14:42
Okay. So for example, way back when we thought that the earth was the center of the solar system. Okay. Did we have did those people who are even older than I am so I was not one of them like way back then. Did those people have knowledge? You did. But when raises an interesting point, they were wrong versus not at the center of the solar system. So did they have knowledge

Unknown 15:10
to have your own understanding?

Unknown 15:13
Okay, so they have an understanding of the world but it may not be knowledge because the true problem how do you define truth? Oh, God. Actually, super important question. How do you define all this?

Unknown 15:28
Was just in their in their terms, but it's not true.

Unknown 15:32
Okay, okay. It's a kind of belief. Okay, so let's break these down. All of these thoughts are exactly perfect, right. Let's just think about how these components fit together. Let's start here, because these are adjectives that are modifying this noun. So let's start with what belief here is. Okay, what do we mean by belief? What's a belief?

Unknown 15:57
An opinion that's held to be true. A subjective view. We want to think of belief as opinion and subjective does that seem here alright, I'll write some stuff over here. For a minute. See, we can pick

Unknown 16:22
his belief in opinion, or subjective view that's held by people because then we're gonna have to say that it's true. So if we have a true opinion or a true subjective view or whatever, does that make sense to say that

Unknown 16:40
maybe justified is the word before, okay. Like so it is not really like the truth.

Unknown 16:48
Like proven to be true in certain periods of like, very limited time and limited, like space.

Unknown 16:55
Okay. But what I'm saying is, what are we justifying to be true like what is what is a belief is that is a belief and opinion is a belief of subjective experience. Does that seem right?

Unknown 17:09
I believe can be

Unknown 17:12
okay. But you can be what

Unknown 17:14
a certain view of the world it doesn't have to be someone's

Unknown 17:18
Okay, so So a view of the world. Perception, okay.

Unknown 17:30
Do you think of opinion as being something different from fact so doesn't believe have some relationship to fact? Right, let me see, I believe something are we saying? I think it is true, or are we saying I have a positive opinion of it? Right. So while I see where we're going with the opinion and subjective part and we're hedging it I think that the this part actually is going to come up here and how we justify it as true. Right? The belief part is not where the subjectivity is, the belief part is something like a perception. One way that I've seen it defined that I kind of like is it's a mental image, like in other words, a belief is a thing that happens in your brain. And you can think of it this completely biological and aware there's a thing in your brain. But just because of things in my brain, that doesn't mean I believe it, right? So it also has to have a positive assessment. There's a thing in my brain and I agree with it. I think it's true, right? So something like a perception plus a positive assessment.

Unknown 18:49
That's what a belief is. So I have a belief because I think something is true. But now, does that mean I acknowledge Well, what if I think that the earth is the center of the solar system? I believe that I have a perception of the earth and the stars and I have a positive assessment of that. Earth being at the center. And so I believe that but is my belief true? Well, not according to when not according to everything we've learned for the last few 1000 years, right? So put into this I don't have knowledge. Okay, so I think it's true, but it isn't true. That just qualifies as me being wrong. It's not the same as knowledge, right? What about justifying, why do we need that? I have a true belief. Why don't we just say knowledge is true belief and have a true belief without being justified.

Unknown 19:53
Justified involves the process of communicating with others and approval invites to others. So it is like consensus instead of just individually

Unknown 20:03
okay. That's important, but why do I need things like others and consensus? Why can't I just have knowledge by myself? What if I just live in a cave and I don't like other people, can I still have knowledge? Can I still walk out of my cave where there are no other people around and look up and there's the sun and I go, I believe it is date time. Right? Do I need consensus do I need other people do I even need communication have knowledge?

Unknown 20:38
If you want to if you want to know whether there are any fish in this river, you can just go fishing. So if I need to kill you, I don't need to communicate with others whether there are any fish in this river. I'm just going fish to to justify this knowledge by practice.

Unknown 20:59
Okay. Why is it important to go and fish and justify my knowledge? See what I'm saying? Why Why just make it that why not just make it the definition knowledge is I believe it and it is true. Isn't that knowledge? Yeah.

Unknown 21:19
Cannot be testifies as true or false. Okay. It's not essential for you, and I happen to believe in that in the wrong way. That can definitely be I think justify is not it's not about an added to true or belief. It's an independent dimension of saying

Unknown 21:48
is everybody kind of get that what if I have a true belief that I can't justify what if remember, I was talking last time about I throw a bunch of coins on the ground. What if I throw one coin on the ground, and I believe that it is heads? And it turns out I'm right but only because I guess right. Do I have a belief that it is heads? Yes. Is my belief true? Yes. Was it justified? Was that knowledge? Did I know that the coin was heads? No, I just guessed right. Right. It's important that we think it is true for good reason. And the things that you guys are saying about consensus and others and communication. Well, where do we get those reasons from? Right. So let's think about this now. Okay. Understanding is probably just having a belief about the world maybe even a justified belief. But if it's, if it's just an understanding, that's not the same as knowledge, at least according to this definition. And like I said to you last time, if you disagree with this, that's fine. Think for yourself, but this is what Epistemologists would say that it can't be knowledge unless you have all three things. Because if you don't justify it, you just guessed right. If it's not true, then it's not knowledge. It's a belief. I hope it's wrong. And if you don't even have a belief, that's a fundamental way at the bottom to have knowledge, you have to have an impression in your brain of the thing that you think is true. Right so does that make sense? It's close to understanding but it has to be understanding that it's accurate. Now do you ever present question of what in the world does this have to do with data science? How do we justify our beliefs as true? Others consensus are examples of how how lots practice, okay, that's part of it. Experiment and what do you get with those kinds of things when you're practicing experiment gain using consensus? What are those? How did those justify

Unknown 24:02
logic? These are all just examples. Sorry, patterns. There's one thing that all of these amounts to. Well, yes, but true. Yes, your claim about knowledge was true. But all of these things are ways to justify and they all have one thing in common,

Unknown 24:29
which is that you might think of them as reasons to believe something is true. Right. Another word for that? Is evidence. Right? Isn't that what all of those things are mounting? How do we justify beliefs is true? Using evidence? All of these being good examples of the kinds of evidence we might look to experiments, our ways of knowing etc. Okay, so, oh, now I'm starting to think about where data might fall into this. Is data the belief is data, the truth? Where's data and knowledge? All of you who have all your different reasons that you shared last time about why you're interested in data science from I want to build algorithms to I want to analyze markets for products, right? Aren't you all ultimately trying to do this isn't the work of data science to build and improve knowledge in some fundamental way? So where's the role of data? In building knowledge? It's in the justification through evidence. This is where the data comes. Right? Okay, once I put it that way, you're like yeah, okay. I kind of knew that already. But you have to if you think it through in this more complicated way, like you see the importance. Now we have to talk about what this is and how it gets there. So what is the difference between data and knowledge? Is data the same thing as knowledge. Okay, so what's the difference? Okay, things we get from data is actually said the insights that we get from data can be considered knowledge, right? So we use data to get insights, ie to justify right So data is the evidence part. So maybe we can build like a brick house or something we have data. And then we have knowledge. Data is like the foundation on which knowledge is built, because of the justification part. Right? Does that make sense? And all of these ways, you've all talked about what data is and the different kinds of data, experimental data and observational data and all those kinds of data are just ways of the foundation for the house. Now, what do we have to do to make data into knowledge? Right throw pennies on the floor. We all agree that statement is that knowledge. Find patterns. Okay? So we do patterns, data analysis, that kind of stuff, right? Some people say and it's on the list, interestingly, over here, but in the field of Information Studies, which I told you is where I originally got my PhD, they make a tree that goes like this. We're a building that goes like this with a top goal or a pyramid. And I think that's the top goal is knowledge. Data is at the bottom and information is in between. What's the difference? So anybody ever seen this stack before? Like data and information and knowledge? Do you remember what the definitions of them are? What is useful, useful data? Okay, and why is it useful? To okay, what is useless data? Like is there such a thing as useless data? Okay, and how do we tell the difference between useful and useless How do we know what noise is

Unknown 28:31
and where does all that come from?

Unknown 28:34
From your objective?

Unknown 28:35
We talked about this a little bit last time what question are you asking when I throw the pennies on the ground? Go do data science. I can't what question you want me to answer how many heads Okay, now, this might be noise you know, if if it lands on its side, there's an error and other be noise in that data. But there could be noise because noise means it's useless to my question. But I have to know my question is, so all data is hypothetically useful data. Right? But is it useful to the kind of knowledge we're trying to build to the question we're answering and how do we know? How do we turn raw data through pennies on the ground into data that is useful to build knowledge? We analyze it and organize it and find patterns the people who like this way of defining these things and one builds on top of the other knowledge is the ultimate goal of our understanding that something is true in our head for good reasons. And it starts from data and in between we take data which exists in the world unorganized and useless and we make it useful by finding patterns, turning it into information. So information is sort of organized data. Right data where you've said what is my question, which data here helps me with my question? So if that's true what is data? See, we're moving down this knowledge is the ultimate goal of I got an understanding of my brain that I can justify as true information is what I did with the data. What's the data? Raw material, where's the raw material? How do I get quiet answers that I can't hear is that because you're not confident enough in them? I'm sure they're close. Databases Sure, but how to get in the database write? Observation, observation. It's in the world. So if you think about it, that we're trying to understand the world. The understanding part is we're knowledge layers, guess what the world is? World is data. Right? The idea of building and I know if I'm belaboring this too much, I'm sorry. But the idea of building this up is you start with what is in the world, with what is arguably real. Data is, is the observation and no human thought is involved yet, at least. In principle, data is just the thing out there that we step in, and we start organizing that data and saying this data is important that data is not important. This data adds up to this. And when we've done that, then we can say to someone you wanted to know about the market for your product. Well, I took the raw data of the people in the world I did some stuff on it, and now I can give you the knowledge of where you should sell your product or whatever I'm doing this right. So it's this is reality. Arguably, because you know what is real is a big question, but this is reality. So what is knowledge? Abstract, abstract, conceptions right. And to use a word that the reading uses. This tree goes as you go up. You are getting more and more representation. Right? Knowledge another way to think of a justified true belief is an understanding of the world or your representation of the world. Isn't that what knowledge is? The belief that is in my head that I have a positive assessment arm is I looked at the world. I looked at all the data and evidence I could find I did some processing and I formed a justified true belief. Because I think I have the world represented in my brain. If you think you know that it is a 10 right now you have knowledge of that. It's because your brain represents the data outside and translates it into that data means it's how do you know you're not dreaming? How do you know that they didn't put a screen up and keep you here till the middle of the night and then put pictures up on the screen? I mean, that would be weird. I don't know. That's a crazy example. You see them saying like, you don't really know. No, no, no, but you feel like I have enough information to justify that I look outside it's daytime, because I have a representation in my head of all the data and what the data means, right? Is it knowledge in a way like our brains just a representation? Do you agree with me, or with the people whose ideas I'm actually talking about? Does that make sense? Is data representation at the bottom level of the data, and knowledge information, data three is data representation.

Unknown 34:12
philosophy class, hard. The idea is that data is not the representation that you build the representation on top of. Right? But of course, one of the things that you do is you decide which data matters and the minute you do that, that's a representation because you're starting to be information. Right? So somewhere in between what is in the world and what we make of what is in the world, which is what knowledge is, we have to represent. Do I have daytime in my brain? I have knowledge that it is daytime outside was daytime in my brain. Study times with my brain is the sun in my brain, right? You see what I'm saying? Daytime is not in my brain. My brain is made of cells that have electricity or whatever goes on in my brain. It's crazy in there. all that crazy stuff in my brain. That's not data. That's a representation. Always right. The only thing that's in there is the neurons. Okay, yeah.

Unknown 35:23
Are we using data as a like a synonym for a world? Sort of? Is that what you're asking? I mean, pretty much. Because what we are talking about when we're talking about data, is something that's out in the world for us to gather observe. Again, why not? You're not alone. What's the difference between data and what about

Unknown 36:02
scientists not data, sound. Everything's, unfortunately, not everything. Well, I don't mean data only. Forgive me. I do not mean data, only mathematical science. Not at all. Again, experimental sensitive data, or, you know, like when you say, I'm gonna go out and do a study, I need to collect my data. You're not necessarily doing anything. You'd be doing qualitative research. My data is, Pete what people say on Twitter. For example, I am studying Twitter. When people I overseer at the cafe, right? It doesn't have to be math anywhere, not in the database. It's Matthew. When you start building information, you're looking like you don't understand her which is fine. Why not?

Unknown 36:55
Isn't don't think like I think data is just a way for you to understand the symbol but there's no reason that equals true.

Unknown 37:03
Okay, well whether data is reality is a different question. Than whether data is the world. Philosophy. Not everybody loves this data, information, knowledge, even though like smart, epistemological thinkers. Not everybody loves this tree. But the idea of it is that the data is the stuff you can observe that lives in the world independent of humans. If we were all wiped down, or we all decided to build live on Mars, that data would still be here. That's the idea.

Unknown 37:41
So we're gonna say this is the this is

Unknown 37:46
we can say is grim. But also, I want you to I mean, like, I don't want you to just decide you believe it just because it's a prerequisite to move on like to get what is it that you see as different between data and it's not claiming that it's real. Reality is a whole different conversation.

Unknown 38:17
If you think of it as there's a thing that we can observe, that information is what we do with the things we've observed and knowledge is the impression that we ultimately make of what the things we've observed me. Then data is the world and Maximals. You don't have to believe it, or you still you still want to argue that data and the world are different. It's okay. Lots of people would say that they aren't

Unknown 38:53
thinking about it. I didn't come up with this idea. I'm not necessarily completely convinced it's true. But the idea is separating. There's an impression in our mind, and there's a world out there which are different things. I think you'll get that right. And that what we do in order to take the stuff out there, the understanding in the world that might give us to start with the difference between those things is the world is where the data is and the understanding is in our brain. Those are not the same. Okay. So then the question is how we get from data, to understanding to knowledge, right? Like what that process is. So we've been talking about not doing data science, but just the knowledge that we get like that it is a time or that I'm wearing green or whatever. What data do we use for that kind of basic, basic what's in the world? There will be data that we use to form the knowledge that my shirt is Jolly Green and my shirt is green. Do you know that my shirt is green? We think you have knowledge of the color of my shirt. Okay, it's your call? Yes. Okay, true. All right, let's go with this one that you can't mess. My head is bald. Blindness would not be an intervening factor. Okay. Thank you for calling out into April. So I'm balling. Everyone knows I'm involved. What data are you I'm not embarrassed about it. What data are you using? To know that? It's a really simple question. What is hair? How much is up here what the word ball means right? And where are you getting that data from? Your observation and how can your eyes get that?

Unknown 40:48
True definition?

Unknown 40:49
Bounce off it right. All of those things are part of the way we observe the world. Right and I know that's pretty obvious, but I'm just pointing it out. Right? You use data to have the knowledge that I involved or tall or white or whatever, or have glasses on anything you think about the world you get from sensor data, or it's not actually that loud in here right now. But I'm urging people type thing, right since data gives us knowledge. So let's think about how our brain does the data processing of calling his balls or whatever. Okay, I have a video for you. Tired of having philosophical conversations with me for now I want a little break from that. This is a video

Unknown 41:41
anyone heard Neil stuff before or maybe seen this video

Unknown 41:52
your brain hallucinate your conscious reality is what the name of this video is. So what I want you to think about when you watch this, like 17 minutes it's a good long break from asking you frustrated questions. But I want you to think about two things as we watch this thing. One is obviously I just want you to kind of get the overview of like, what do you think are the main points he is making here about how in his experiments in his research how our brains actually due process reality, like take data and turn it into knowledge? Okay, so that's thing one is just what are his main points but think to only think about is how is this potentially useful in thinking about data science? Okay, and I know you have no idea what the antivirus you got to think about those two things. What are his main points? And how is this like, Do I see any relationship even a basic one between this and data science? Okay, let's watch this. See what this means about this process? of turning data into knowledge that we've been taught?

Unknown 43:03
Just over a year ago, for the third time in my life, I ceased to exist. I was having a small operation my brains filling with anesthetic. I remember a sense of detachment and falling upon coldness. And then I was back drowsy and disoriented but definitely there. Now when you wake from a deep sleep, you might feel confused about the time or anxious about oversleeping but there's always a basic sense of time having passed the continuity between then and now and coming around from anesthesia. It's very different. I could have been under for five minutes, five hours, five years or even 50 years I simply wasn't there is total oblivion. anesthesia, it's a modern kind of magic. It turns people into objects. And then we hope back again into people and in this process is one of the greatest remaining mysteries in science and philosophy. How does consciousness happen? Somehow, within each of our brains, the combined activity of many billions of neurons each one tiny biological machine is generating a conscious experience and not just any conscious experience, your conscious experience right here and right now, how does this happen? Well, answering this question is so important, because consciousness for each of us, is all there it's without it. There's no world. There's no self. There's nothing at all. And when we suffer, we suffer consciously whether it's through natural illness or pain. And if we can experience joy and suffering, what about other animals? might they be conscious to do they also have a sense of self and as computers get faster and smarter? Maybe they'll come a point maybe not too far away when my iPhone developed a sense of its own existence? Now I actually think the prospects for a conscious AI are pretty remote. And I think this because my research is telling me that consciousness has less to do with pure intelligence, and more to do with our nature as a living and breathing organisms.

Unknown 45:00
I just want to stop on that sentence. Right? Just think about that. He doesn't think that AI will become self aware because it has less to do with intelligence and more to do with our like living breathing. Yes, our being alive, okay. Now, maybe you don't totally get what he means by that yet, but I just wanted to highlight that idea because you might kind of see how that relates to this.

Unknown 45:26
consciousness and intelligence are very different things. You don't have to be smart to suffer, but you probably do have to be alive. And the story I'm going to tell you are conscious experiences of the world around us. And if our sounds within it, are kinds of control to loosen nations that happen with through and because of our living bodies. Now, you might have heard that we know nothing about how the brain and body give rise to consciousness. Some people even say it's beyond the reach of science all together. But in fact, the last 25 years have seen an explosion of scientific work in this area. If you come to my lab at the University of Sussex you'll find scientists from all different disciplines and sometimes even philosophers all of us together trying to understand how consciousness happens and what happens when it goes wrong. And the strategy is very simple. I'd like you to think about consciousness in the way that we've come to think about life. Now at one time, people thought the property of being alive could not be explained by physics and chemistry, that life had to be more than just mechanism for people no longer think that as pilot just got on with the job of explaining the properties of living systems in terms of physics and chemistry, things like metabolism, reproduction, homeostasis, the basic mystery of what life is started to fade away and people didn't propose any more magical solutions like a force of life are an add on detail. So as with life, so with consciousness, once we start explaining its properties, in terms of things happening inside brains and bodies, the apparently insoluble mystery of what consciousness is should start to fade away. At least that's that's the plan. So let's get started. What are the properties of consciousness? What are the science of consciousness trying to explain? Well, for today, I just like to think of consciousness in two different ways. There are experiences of the world around us, full of sights sounds and smells. This multi sensory panoramic 3d fully immersive in a movie. And then there's conscious self, the specific experience of being you or being me the lead character in this in a movie in probably the aspects of consciousness we all cling to most tightly. Let's start with experiences of the world around us and with the important idea of the brain as a prediction engine. Now, imagine being a brain. You're locked inside a bony skull trying to figure out what's out there in the world. There's no lights inside the skull. There's no sound either, or you've got to go on a stream of electrical impulses which are only indirectly related to things in the world, whatever they may be. So perception, figuring out what's there has to be a process of informed guesswork in which the brain combines the sensory signals, with its prior expectations or beliefs about the way the world is to form its best guess of what caused those signals. The brain doesn't hear sound or see lights, what we perceive is its best guess of what's out there in the world. Let me give you a couple of examples of all this. Now, you might have seen this illusion before but I'd like you to think about it in a new way. If you look at those two patches, A and B. They should look to be very different shades of gray, right? But they are in fact exactly the same shade. And I can illustrate this by put up a second version of the image here and join it. Join the two patches with a gray colored bar and you can see there's no difference. It's exactly the same shade of gray. And if you still don't believe me, I'll bring the bar across and join them up. It's a single colored block of gray. There's no difference at all. This isn't any kind of magic trickery. It's the same shade of gray, but take it away again, and it looks different. So what's happening here is that the brain is using its prior expectations go deeply into the circuits of the visual cortex, that a cast shadow dims the appearance of a surface so that we see be as lighter than it really is. Here's one more example which shows just how quickly the brain can use new predictions to change what we consciously experience have a listen to this. It sounded strange, right? Have a listen again and see if you can get anything still strange now listen to this. I think Brexit is a really terrible idea. Which already you heard some words there right now listen to the first sound again, it's going to replay it. Yeah, so you can now hear words that once nor for luck Okay, so what's going on here is the remarkable thing is the sensory information coming into the brain hasn't changed at all. All this changed is your brains best guess of the causes of that sensory information and that changes what you consciously hear. Now all this puts the brain basis of perception, and a bit of a different line instead of perception depending largely on signals coming into the brain from the outside world. It depends as much if not more on perceptual predictions flowing in the opposite direction. We don't just. If the world we actively generated, the world we experience comes as much if not more from the inside out, as from the outside. Let me give you one more example of perception as this active constructive process. In this image here we've combined immersive virtual reality, with image processing to simulate the effects of overly strong perceptual predictions on experience. In this panoramic video, we've transformed the world which is in this case, satellite campus into a psychedelic playground. We've processed the footage using an algorithm based on Google's deep dream to simulate the effects of overly strong perceptual predictions, in this case to see dogs and you can see this as a very strange thing when perceptual predictions are too strong as they are here. The result looks very much like the kinds of hallucinations people might report in altered states or perhaps even in psychosis. Now think about this for a minute. If if hallucination as a kind of uncontrolled perception, then perception right here and right now is also a kind of hallucination, but a controlled hallucination in which the brains predictions are being reined in by sensory information from the world. In fact, we're all hallucinating all the time, including right now. It's just that when we agree about our hallucinations, we call that reality. Now I'm going to tell you that your experience of being a self the specific experience of being used, also a controlled hallucination generated by the brain. Now this seems a very strange idea, right? Yes, visual illusions might deceive my eyes, but how could I be deceived about what it means to be me? For most of us the experience of being a person as social media so unified and so continuous that it's difficult not to take it for granted, but we shouldn't take it for granted. There are in fact many different ways we experience being itself. There's the experience of having a body and a being a body. There are experiences of perceiving the world from a first person point of view. There are experiences of intending to do things and of being the cause of things that happen in the world. And there are experiences of being a continuous and distinctive person over time, built from a rich set of memories and social interactions. Now many experiments show and psychiatrists and neurologists know very well that these different ways in which we experience being itself can all come apart. What this means is a basic background experience of being a unified self as a rather fragile construction of the brain. Another experience which just like all others, requires explanation. So let's return to the bodily self. How does the brain generate the experience of being a body and of having a body are just the same principles apply the brain makes its best guess about what is and what is not part of its body. And there's a beautiful experiment in neuroscience to illustrate this. And unlike most neuroscience experiments, this is what you can do at home. All you need is one of these and a couple of paint brushes. Now, when the rubber hand illusion, a person's real hand is hidden from view, and that fake rubber hand is placed in front of them, then both hands are simultaneously stroked with a paintbrush while the person stares at the fake hand. Now for most people after a while, this leads to the very uncanny sensation that they can is in fact, part of their body. And the idea is that the congruence between seeing touch and feeling touch on an object that looks like a hand and is roughly where a hand should be is enough evidence for the brain to make its best guess that the fake hand is in fact, part of the body.

Unknown 54:31
So you can imagine all kinds of clever things right? You can measure skin conductance and startle responses, but there's no need. It's clear the guy in blue has assimilated the fake hair. Now this means that even experiences of what our body is is a kind of best guessing a kind of controlled hallucination by the brain. And there's one more thing we don't just experience our bodies as objects in the world from the outside. We also experienced them from within we all experience a sense of being a body from the inside. And sensory signals coming from the inside of the body continually telling the brain about the state of the internal organs how the highest doing blood pressure is like lots of things and this kind of perception, which we call interoception is rather overlooked, but it's critically important because perception and regulation of the internal state of the body. Well, that's what keeps us alive. Here's another version of the rubber hand of ease and this is from our lab at Sussex. And here people see a virtual reality version of their hands, which flashes red and back either in time or out of time with their heartbeat. And when it's flashing in time with their heartbeat, people have a stronger sense that it's in fact part of their body. So experiences of having a body are deeply grounded. In perceiving our bodies from within. There's one last thing I want to draw your attention to, which is that experiences of the body from the inside are very different from experiences in the world around us. When I look around me the world seems full of objects, tables, chairs, rubber hands, people, you will not even my own body in the world. I can perceive it as an object from the outside, but my experiences of the body from within they're not like that at all. I don't see my kidneys here, my liver here my spleen. I don't know where my spleen is. But somewhere I don't perceive my insides as objects in fact, I don't experience them much at all unless they go wrong. And this is important. I think the section of the internal state of the body isn't about figuring out what's there. It's about control and regulation, keeping the physiological variables within the tight bounds that are compatible with survival. When the brain uses predictions to figure out what's there, we perceive objects as the causes of sensations. When the brain uses predictions to control and regulate things we experience how well how badly that controller is going. So our most basic experiences of being a self or being an embodied organism, are deeply grounded in the biological mechanisms that keep us alive. And when we follow this idea all the way through, we can start to see that all of our conscious experiences, since they all depend on the same mechanisms predictive perception, all stem from this basic drive to stay alive we experience the world and ourselves with through and because of our living bodies. Let me bring things together step by step. What we consciously see depends on the brains best guess of what's out there. Our experienced world comes from the inside out, not just the outside. The rubber hand illusion shows that this applies to our experiences of what is and what is not our body. And these self related predictions depend critically on sensory signals coming from deep inside the body. And finally experiences of being an embodied self and more about control and regulation than figuring out what's there. So our experiences of the world around us and ourselves within it well, that kinds of control for these nations that have been shaped over millions of years of evolution to keep us alive in worlds full of danger. And opportunity, we predict ourselves into existence. Now I'll leave you with three implications of orbits first, just as we can miss perceive the world we can miss perceive ourselves when the mechanisms of prediction go wrong. Understanding this opens many new opportunities in Psychiatry and Neurology because we can finally get the mechanisms rather than just treating the symptoms and conditions like depression and schizophrenia. Second, what it means to be me cannot be reduced to or uploaded to a software program running on a robot however smart or sophisticated. We are biological, flesh and blood animals whose conscious experiences are shaped at all levels by the biological mechanisms that keep us alive, just making computers smarter is not going to make them sentience. Finally, our own individual in a universal way of being conscious is just one possible way of being conscious. and even human consciousness generally it's just a tiny region in a vast space of possible consciousnesses. our individual self and worlds are unique to each of us, but they're all grounded in biological mechanisms. shared with many other living creatures. Now, these are fundamental changes and how.

Unknown 59:40
related to all other creatures, to the present day with a greater sense of understanding, comes a greater sense of wonder, and a greater realization that we are part of, and not apart from the rest of nature. And when the end of consciousness comes, there's nothing to be afraid of. Nothing at all. Thank you

Unknown 1:00:10
I don't know if I'm gonna last part personally but otherwise right coming on, watch your eyes. So he's not talking about data science specifically. But you see how he's kind of talking about data science

Unknown 1:00:32
what first of all, if you like this video, interesting, isn't it? So what is what's useful? Thinking about the project of doing data science thinking about this conversation we had what's useful to us in that data? In understanding knowledge, and understanding the use of data

Unknown 1:01:02
no idea. No idea why just put you through that for 17 minutes. So first of all, he's talking about consciousness, which is not the same as knowledge, right? Consciousness is experience. But he's what he says about consciousness useful to us in thinking about how we get to knowledge right before we watch this, I asked you do you know I'm bald? Yes. How do you know that? I'm bald because your consciousness tells you I involved. Well, what does he tell you about how consciousness works? Ideas prior ideas information, okay, so that's going to be super important. I'm gonna start erasing stuff so. So one of the things he talks about is prior ideas and info are part of how consciousness forms an impression, which is where the belief comes from that we justify is true like the data that goes into your eyes and so forth that you say I have the knowledge he's bald comes from your prior ideas, information. Processing work. The sense data that you got from reality, right, the data that went into your eyes, which is how you all said you knew I was bald because you saw it with your eyes because the light bounces off right? All of those things, which by this definition, our data, get processed through prior ideas, our brain makes a prediction and goes that looks like a bald person. I think he's bald, etc. Right. What else does he say about the way consciousness works? is unconstrained Yes, active and constructed. By our priors, right, so active and construct it. What does that mean for us in thinking about the use of data to form knowledge?

Unknown 1:03:17
bias in how we collect the data, there could be bias on how we analyze the data, there could be bias in what we even consider data to be. And back to the question you thought it was ignoring about whether data is reality what if the data is the rubber arm on the table? Right, because when that guy was forming, like when the when the other guy came and stabbed in the hand with the fork. He had an experience which he for a second thought his own hand was being stabbed. How did he get that experience? Well, he had something that he probably didn't even recognize. His knowledge and understanding of the world, which is that's actually my hand even though it wasn't because he took the data and he processed it without probably even realizing he'd done it. Right. So is the arm that he understood to be his own? Actually his own? No, was the data that was said was the world actually reality. But was it in the world? Right. Sometimes, we can take data that is really there and turn it into knowledge that is wrong through things like fires, right? Why? Because we don't just objectively take in the data and go son is there therefore, right? Because sometimes our brains mess it up with all the other things that we can do. Which you read a whole lot about that in those first couple of readings. Right. You also talks a lot about this idea that our brains are prediction engines.

Unknown 1:04:59
You know, what else is a prediction engine

Unknown 1:05:06
algorithms, algorithms, machine learning algorithms in particular chat. GPT is a huge Prediction Engine. So he talks a little bit about AI in the beginning, where I stopped and right at the end, when he's talking about the three takeaways, you said something really interesting, which I'll read back to you. Isn't there are three things that this all amounts to at the end and the thing he says about what we might think of as machine learning algorithms is what it means to be making cannot be reduced to or uploaded to a software program running on a robot, however smart or sophisticated. We are biological, flesh and blood animals whose conscious experiences are shaped at all levels. By the biological mechanisms that keep us alive. Just making computers smarter is not going to make them second. He doesn't think artificial intelligence can ever be the same as intelligence, as argued. Why not? Right, but why does it matter if they're not? What part of living will they never be able to get? That is important to how consciousness works and how our biological mechanism works. So what if, if a computer never has cells or flash or whatever, it doesn't have biological mechanisms. What will it never be able to have afforded here? What is it missing? Fear of death. Okay. Sorry, I can't use survival instinct. Yeah, right. And not just a survival instinct. But even if you don't know it for instinct, why does our man brain do what it does?

Unknown 1:07:09
So now let's come to the reading that I had to do about system one and system.

Unknown 1:07:19
Two please in writing. This is the book that you read three chapters from Thinking Fast and Slow by Daniel Kahneman has anyone heard of this before you read these three chapters? It is, as everyone read this book. It is not very often that I say what I'm about to say that this is one of those books that changes the way you see the world. I really genuinely recommend this book to everyone. Danny Kahneman won the Nobel Prize in Economics for the work that he did with Amos diversity, which you read about a little bit about. And he's got all kinds of great scientific papers which are in the back of this, which is what you want to know a prize for. But this is a book he wrote about more than 10 years ago, in very simple language explaining all of these insights that he had, and the basic ideas that are which will tie back to this in a minute, is the difference between system one and system two.

Unknown 1:08:11
So really quick way to break it a little bit here. When he calls system one. And system two, what is the difference between system one and system two? Intuition and reasoning. If you're like me, you're likely which ones which I know that they are but I can't remember which ones one and which one is. The book is called Thinking Fast and Slow.

Unknown 1:08:45
Absolutely perfect title. And here's why. Thinking Fast is system one thinking slow is systematic. So if you ever forget to just think of the title of any one engineer Alright, so system one is the fast system. System two is the slow system. What does that mean? Okay, system two has more effort, right? It's true. Someone back here said something. Which one's logic? Okay. Which one's intuitive? Okay.

Unknown 1:09:27
Okay

Unknown 1:09:34
so you get the idea. This is sort of instinct we these are the ways that we think with instinct and these are the ways when we sit down and really think something through okay, now here is maybe how these ideas can act. Why does our brain work like this? Let's think about this. What are the advantages of system one? Are there any thinking? It's fast. Well, that's good. Why don't we fast? We survive. It's effortless, right? Do you think that that might be something that we biologically have evolved? Right? What if we didn't have system one? What if we only had systems here?

Unknown 1:10:19
Take a lot of time to make a decision in simple

Unknown 1:10:23
and so on. So what if it took a long time to make a decision efficient it's not efficient. So what if it's not efficient?

Unknown 1:10:32
From outside,

Unknown 1:10:33
you know, I think there might be a lion in that bush. Let me think really deeply about whether there's right our survival instincts or or our ability to respond quickly to accidents, right? He uses the example of driving. Driving is designed on purpose for system one. Roads are wide. They're pretty straight. It's pretty easy. Like when you drive in normal conditions, as he says in the book, you don't think very hard about it. Right? Were you

Unknown 1:11:01
were you saying that the system was something that we evolve or slow to something that we have

Unknown 1:11:07
well, we've evolved in but but if you believe in like evolutionary psychology, these both exist for some purpose some advantage that they have conferred on our some survival of the fittest right? So what I'm asking is, what is the advantage of this one? And the answer that a lot of people think is there's a survival value to this because I if I'm driving system to is not necessary most of the time. I can just sit on system one when when I'm driving, do I need system terrible parking, especially if something changes, like if a truck pulls out, or if I go there's construction, right? And then I have to think about it and try to figure out how to get out of the situation. So system two helps me in a lot of ways, and we like deep thinking and you're all you know, deep thinkers and graduate students like we like that our brains can think this way and it's what makes us smarter than animals is our system two brain, but without our system, one brain, we wouldn't have a system to brain because we would have died a long time ago. Right? So they both have advantages. What does that have to do with what he's talking about in the TED Talk? Control totally controlled hallucination is right. But why is that? related?

Unknown 1:12:31
Even ourselves? I mean, these model systems one, because it is all about how you control the body and you don't necessarily have to involve substance to it. Maybe you're not Doctor don't know about things or you know, you have a stomachache.

Unknown 1:12:46
Yes. Well, one of the things you said is you're not aware of the parts of your body unless something goes wrong, right which is exactly what I just said about driving system one breeds for me. Unless I'm underwater, and then system two might go I need to swim up there and breathe similar or whatever. I don't even actually know if that would be system two, but right there in the order if like I suddenly can't breathe, then I gain system to to think what happens. Am I in a smoke filled room or whatever, right? A lot of the our perception of ourselves comes from system one, although hold on to that whole idea because we're talking about the self next week, and we might come back to some of how we perceive ourselves then. But there's another thing I think you said it twice once each time, which is what is what is it about his biological mechanism and system one and two, have in common? Survival, right, when you say survival and both of them, you see the point he's saying, our intelligence or knowledge, all that stuff is is tied up in our biology because our biology needs it to survive. Exactly. And what Tversky and Kahneman say is very specifically, when we think of our brain is having these two systems, one that is more key to our innate, instinctual survival because system one the fast systems are instincts system. And we also have system to that takes cues from system one like system one gives it advice and system two endorses that as he talks about in the reading, right? That it's these two things together that make us intelligent. Like that's what cognition is at the human level. Which is, I think we all believe superior to any other creature that of which we are aware. But it's only because of our biological, instinctual need to survive that our brains work the way they do. And if if you don't build a brain this way, then it's not intelligent. You don't necessarily have to agree with him. But I think that's the idea of the difference between like artificial intelligence and this kind of intelligence. So with me so far, just makes sense. But then, we talked about what's good about system one, and what's good about system terrible. Where would we be if we didn't have system one, we'd all be dead, right? Because system two would take too long. Where would we be if we didn't have system two? We'd be like rocks more or less. You know, we'd be animals right? We'd be those lower life lifestyle was insulting to cute animals, we would be life forms who are less sophisticated and can't make machines and drive cars and build artificial intelligence. Okay, so we need birth. But that's what's good about Baron. what is bad about either system one or system to anything. Well, why cognitive bias? Yes, that is bad. I agree. Why is why is that part of what's bad about system one part two?

Unknown 1:16:11
prediction. So did my best guess not really. Sometimes maybe close in.

Unknown 1:16:21
What are those hallucinations come from? Is which system or combination of systems we're using to form our consciousness and our impressions and our knowledge and our beliefs, right. When do we run into trouble? What's the problem with system one? Specifically? What stereotypes carry the represent representativeness heuristic, but that's not the only thing it does. It does stereotype

Unknown 1:16:52
it does not see the nature of

Unknown 1:16:55
okay. I mean, it's really even simpler than that. If you think fast. You didn't really consider all of the evidence you only considered like what was there that immediately meant something to you. And so it jumps to conclusions all the time. Stereotypes are one of the conclusions that jumps to there's a lot of other. He talks about heuristics. You guys familiar with the word heuristics? This is another one of those words that you should someone should say to you in graduate school a couple of times just to get your money's worth. What's a heuristic? mental shortcut another Greek word. Okay. So that's what he's talking about his mental shortcuts. The problem was system one, which we love because it kept us alive against the lions and all that stuff. Is it's shortcuts. And sometimes when you take shortcuts, you messed up. Right? You jumped to conclusion? Is there a problem with system two? Other than slow because we've established that being slow would kill you. Is there a problem with system two in terms of like processing information?

Unknown 1:18:03
Which distractions okay, too much distraction

Unknown 1:18:10
relates to choices tied in

Unknown 1:18:17
another thing if you think about it, if we didn't have system one is what if you had to decide about every stupid thing you do every day? I don't have to think about how to walk out of the room system. One just takes care of it for me. What if I had to stop not only that's a survival thing? It's an information overload. Right? And so the problem was system two, is he's working really hard. You can get tired, right? And if we make him too tired, he's gonna start endorsing system one over and over. So both of them are susceptible to messing up. Right? I mean, that's the big point of all of his work is the shortcuts that we take. And where do we start when we think which system starts the process of thinking system work and then what the system to do? takes the idea from system one and goes good idea system one for No, no, no, wait a second system one. I'm the one who thinks about stuff right? But too often we go good ideas. Now, a lot of times as you said, system one is right. I'm cold. Put on system one. Good, good job. Thanks for taking care of that. So I don't think you worry about it. But sometimes system one is wrong. What does this have to do? And then we'll take a break. With the formation of knowledge where we started for observing the world as data.

Unknown 1:19:58
This is data. This is data processing that our brain does like as our brains our little algorithms. Here. And these are the two algorithms that our brain uses this system will sometimes do it wrong. Can we build that same problem into artificial intelligence? Can we build that and even for those of you who aren't AI people who just want to do like you know, data analysis and visualization for marketing is interview sharing. Can you learn from this way that our brains work? We talked last time about mistakes you can make in data collection. You can have biases in which data you collect and you can have mistakes and data processing. This is if I may oversimplify a little data collection. Right? And this is the data processing. And sometimes it just says the data you collected is good. I got it and it goes and that's when we end up with those problems that you read about in the second reading. All right, is when the what we collected we decide we can analyze it just as it is without thinking about do we have the right data set here? Do we have enough of the data we need? Because remember, the guy who heard his friend was a gorilla in the picture. You heard that story before. That's pretty famous story. He said I was really mad at the algorithm. But then I thought about everything he was like, it's actually not the algorithms

Unknown 1:21:25
fault. It's the training data. Right. Can you think of that in terms of system one and two

Unknown 1:21:36
system two's fault system to just endorsement system one told there. Right. So the problem is, we need a better data. Not we needed better analysis, we need a better game. Okay, so we'll talk about this more. And the idea of the representativeness heuristic and all that after we take a break, because I know that your brains have experienced too much consciousness in the last few minutes. Need to take a little rest. So it's 325. So let's go 15 minutes and we'll start again at 340 Okay,

Transcribed by https://otter.ai