Unknown 0:04
Okay

Unknown 0:10
good reading this week alright, okay

Unknown 0:29
unfortunately, a lot of very, very basic introductions with a lot of elegance sort of wrap your head around. We'll go through them. I really want to make sure we're clear on that but also to get a lot into application. And I'm going to put up some examples we're going to talk about how can we use this Do you understand

Unknown 1:04
how many of you

Unknown 1:13
have there are whole classes at the undergraduate level graduate level we can talk about

Unknown 1:30
the water so sorry, there's so much stuff so quickly. But this is my advice. Just constantly be thinking, What do I do I sort of get the basic idea of this so that I can go back and looked at more detail as to how do I see this apply? What I want to do my project for this class to work I want to do is constantly be thinking about that. And if you understand it, and you forget about it later, but you remember that there are several of these theories that I honestly have not spent a lot of time with in my life and don't have a lot of experience with although there were some that I spent a lot of time with our department this material stuff like that, because I've written about it and I don't expect all of you to be masters of all theories unless you see. So just keep thinking that.

Unknown 3:04
Final Hours depending.

Unknown 3:16
On room.

Unknown 3:34
Do after thank?

Unknown 3:51
You

Unknown 4:09
Okay, so first thing, let's do it. Three things. One thing is I messed up this. Some of you probably noticed that I didn't make the assignment available. So we tried assignment.

Unknown 4:27
Most of you did it great. If you didn't get a chance to do with blocks when you tried to do it. I'll give you extra time. We were all set up here like at 430 every day or every week, because more than a while wife, I really saw mine all the time and I just never really. So again turning this on slide. I'm gonna break on Friday, by Friday because I can tell you get on it if you can't get it by Friday because anybody thinks going on. Just want to shoot me a quick email about it. Alright, but the other thing I want to talk about what's coming up First I will make available right now.

Unknown 5:28
So you need assignment six folder to inheritance. This is what I want to talk about continue the class. You don't want to make sure we get the progress report as much time as don't try to recall yourself right now. Okay, I'm gonna just walk you through that. Basically, there are going to be three next week, which is week six, then every three weeks so six 912. Okay, there's about a page. I'm not going to like, come on down. It's longer. than that. But don't be thinking about either right now, paper being about a concise explanation of what you have in mind. For your project. There are three components and it will be the same every week. With a little tweak the first component what errors you're describing what you're doing, okay, so for this time is the next note there's an asterisk right here down here. For the first progress report, describe the project as you imagined, it said the reason that motivation towards the project, again, one parent, is you want to do it is my final This is why I want to do it. That's all okay. Number two is based on where we are in a course like which will be through persuasion intensive reading for your personal CMCI MC stuff. What theory are you currently planning on using for your project? Why do you believe they apply? Maybe that's a paragraph. And then the third thing is upcoming work and expectations before the next product or next or the theory. So again, all the part of the boards will have this form so when you're going to do for next week number one should be here's why. Number two should be here's what I think the series we've covered so far that are useful and how to apply them Alex don't make my project better. Number three is looking ahead. What are you going to do over the course of the next three weeks before your next report is do what do you see ahead on the syllabus that you think might be interesting, but if you're really have any idea what it means, just to get a sense of that there's some progress. Okay, so that's the next one. Just like the regular and then I will do my best, but it is my great day this semester. I'm going to do my best to give you detailed feedback. Most of the time I need your feedback will be great. But there are things that I have questions about that I want us to think more about I haven't really been super detail feedback on the other assignments. Remember, but this one is like feel like feedback is needed. I will give it any questions about that. What's

Unknown 8:28
next, where are they because we are only two days before this Friday.

Unknown 8:33
No, this assignment is due next Wednesday. So I mean the Friday after do so about two days out

Unknown 8:48
when you're thinking about what do I do right now? Your professor with you next wednesday and then I'll read it within a couple of days and so you have a really good sense of whether you're on track. I don't expect that you need to be way off track but he faces some adjustments in the evening. Okay. One of the papers on the last time I'm not going to go over it again in detail. I hope you will either have the time to read in detail or plans are in detail before you do this. If you have any questions about how that will work, okay, I'm happy to answer questions. You asked me in person you can email me but I wasn't planning to do any more.

Unknown 9:43
Same day, same with what we're doing next week is called interpersonal communication. The universal communication theory I'm bringing it forward and getting fired pipelines. So CMC and MC and essentially what you're going to do is play with chatbots. We're gonna take two chatbots you can pick chat TPP whichever you're in GDP right now, I think baby chat Google bar or any other one you want. You're going to compare two chat bots to each other. So essentially, you're gonna pick something that you think you know, really well subjectively know about and ask the Chatbot one chatbot another chatbot to teach you about that subject. And because you know about it so well, you'd be able to just help them and then you're gonna think a bit about how it appears. And the only way to do that is to do a task for you. Like, there are some examples here. You could ask him to write a cover letter for your job interview and see how good a cover letter would write or you could write a birthday message to a friend or write a poem or give me an answer. So you can ask the chat box you're going to compare first of all, tell me a lot about going to see what we do, and then do a task. You're gonna think about how it did and what that tells you about how you think it works, what we understand about how it works, and also this is pretty important questions down here. How these tours can, should or should not be used, like, what should we be doing with chatbots? What's going to be thinking about chatbots being able to do in the future? What should we not be? Sorry, is that no as part of the conversation that we're having as a society right now? Before I taught this class, and we didn't do it like this, actually, although no one had ever heard it. And then all of a sudden, in November, it dropped in everyone's pocket. And people were like, doing final projects that involve that box, and suddenly, everything was different. So it's really a fascinating time for this particular technology. This is a new assignment we did this last last year, but when this is all rooted in again, you should read the meetings. First because it's rooted in here in CMC, computer mediated communication for those who don't know, in a IMC in person communication. Any questions about that?

Unknown 12:27
So I think, like maybe like the first half, and we can

Unknown 12:45
you're asking for two extra days to have that class first.

Unknown 12:59
Don't think that that was one kind of, I don't know, image generator that kind of thing. But maybe I shouldn't say. So. There are lots of different tools. And let me think a little bit about how much that class will help everyone

Unknown 13:29
for my final project

Unknown 13:35
tell me how to do my final project better.

Unknown 13:45
What do I need to do? Answer I don't know. I think that might have been something else. That I forgot last week. Some of you asked me about group projects. So here's my thought on group projects.

Unknown 14:09
Good projects are not ideal. So we're not officially we're not going to get rid of projects. We can't have some people doing solo and some people doing different things to do individual projects. However, the week after you turn it in, we've said we're going to talk about collaboration. And I usually have a little group assignment that we would do in that class which I think I will change the group collaboration on your final project. And you can talk to people about the project which you have, by this point for a week, written about and have a pretty good idea, and we'll use that as both a way for you to get some feedback and assistance but also a way to think about the dynamics of the environment and the concepts that we're talking about. That seem fair, because there will be people who brought up like the advantages of collaboration. And we've literally studied that in this class. So why not use that time? Because I know. All right, well, that would be good. Questions so excited.

Unknown 15:35
To have a group assignment of the final project.

Unknown 15:38
We're not going to have everyone will do their own assignment because we have to, we have to do the same thing in all sections. People take this class here Thursday, so hard to know. But you get the collaboration. We'll do this group project in class two weeks.

Unknown 16:14
Other questions? So one is your usual hopefully on assignment, battling chatbox assignments the other one is just establishing report, but don't stress too much about the status. Not grading you on how good an idea it is or how well written it is. We're trying to give a rating on the fact that we're just trying to do is just make sure that we're on. We're on track. And have you thought about how the theories we will cover it up to that point, or hopefully, you do not have to try to use every theory but I think a lot of theories are applicable or more complex than you might just want to start that process. So hopefully it's not too stressful. Any other questions? Right. All right, so let's try to master every single persuasion motivation theory that was ever done in two and a half. Increasing, pull that up. What I'm going to do is go drive a bunch of slides for my slides. I have a lot of work. Mostly pictures of stuff I want to go through the theory is more or less the order you read and I want to kind of hit the highlights and make sure we're clear on that. And then like I said, let's do a little bit about some examples. Other theories help us. So let's start with self determination theory, which is where you study. This is the intrinsic versus extrinsic. And this is a pretty good example. Intrinsic motivation is like self motivation. That's the easiest way to think of it. And extrinsic which has that x like out there you know, like Angel in me actually. Extrinsic more, right? I'm oversimplifying, but in terms of these things like enjoyment, purpose, curiosity, passion. Why do you want to be in who enjoy playing video games or sports, you know, and you do it because you like? Like, that's intrinsic or you code because you think it's fun.

Unknown 18:40
Theory kind of despises all of that, doing it, some external. I think that's the core idea. So the reason I like to start with self determination theory, this is kind of my own spin on this termination theory when understanding the difference between the central motivation is at the core of every other kind of motivation. What's one of these intrinsic or extrinsic do you think is more effective? Which is more effective. You understand? What it is, if you want to give it a wild guess, think about the ways that you are motivated. Are you more motivated by the things on the list over here? are activated by the infinitive we're moving on.

Unknown 19:51
Okay, sure, but don't you think that even in a court the ones that you that you have an intrinsic interest in like I'm in this class, and I genuinely love not just some other class, I genuinely love the content. I generally want to learn about like, well, you know, the difference between those classes and wants to be doing engagement and you're all going to have they're the ones you care about. When you say are your favorite classes, the topics that we studied were the ones who had an encrypted connection.

Unknown 20:46
It really does boil down, because actually, there's a lot of things I can motivate you to do extremely, very effective. Like I could threaten your grades, and that's gonna motivate a lot of people. A lot. Right? Or I couldn't, you know, someone could read. There'll be an excellent motivation you will probably really work. But what interest is better at is keeping you there for the long term. Once the violence is gone, or the grade is gone. I no longer care about that class. I just work hard enough. Whereas if I'm intrinsically motivated, I might actually go on and take another class or whatever, right. So both are highly motivating. Intrinsic if that makes sense. Like I said, I think this is at the core of all the other stuff we are we are we getting a person to motivate themselves? Are we getting a person to get the question? Right, so this is the other part of self determination theory that you read that I think it's like second core idea to these three numbers, competence, autonomy and relatedness. So when did you understand this universal need for competence? The context itself what way competence motivation

Unknown 22:20
okay, how would that motivation do you say self advocacy or efficacy? Why is it?

Unknown 22:40
Okay, so, how hard is it? It's too hard. I might not walk. There any other aspects of consequences motivated? Notice that it has the word self. Right. This is about the point of this theory of don't any of you feel motivated to do things well, just like you wanting to do something I wanted to do it isn't that a kind of environment motivation? I don't know what sports is an example for me like there's some sports I play well in some terrible ad and it was a terrible terrible actor, but also I just don't find it motivating to be bad. Intrinsically. But because I'm motivated and competent, because I take something on I'm gonna try to do a good job. You feel good about something. Now there are many things that you might say, Hey, I don't care if I'm competent. Yes. Well, that also be done. Right. If you care about competence, you're going to be motivated. Even if you're not going to learn how to do this. I'm going to code in a language I can't code in. I don't want to be a bad career elegant. That's don't need motivation, right. What about a quantified self worth? You know, the word autonomy means so I was autonomy motivated.

Unknown 24:33
You're given two choices of things to do one where you get a lot of autonomy, a lot of freewill, a lot of ability and another where you don't have much autonomy. Which one are you more likely to want? Which one are you more motivated when you have free will and the ability to do your own way. Isn't that itself a motivation? To give me two choices, the one that I have some autonomy in and the one where I don't. Again, if I have an extrinsic motivation, like a grade, it doesn't matter if I'm autonomy, I'll just do it but to intrinsically motivate autonomy, the ability to do it my way on my terms. Isn't that really just take my word for it. Have you had that experience where you feel like I'm going to do this because I'm allowed to do it the way that I want. Like, for example, hopefully because I'm letting you do whatever you want for your process that is somewhat more motivational for you. I recognize that it's very extrinsic and you're making me and you're giving me a break. I totally get that. But hopefully, there's more intrinsic motivation for your project because you get to choose the thing that you want. Your way right so I'm gonna write these on here because this is so SPT they call this self determination theory when I write this on the board, because when the slides disappear, I want to still have the words today, so competence I'm motivated I'm motivated to do things well, and I want to do something well and be motivated autonomy. I am motivated to do things my own way and on my own terms and the order that I am motivated. What about related

Unknown 26:25
Okay, support me Absolutely. Can you think of other ways that we did this with the motivational

Unknown 26:36
society things that we do? Right, but also what this will form and strengthen the social connections are one of the reasons why I like sports, I play softball and for all these reasons, competence, when I'm not good at it anymore, but also, but also relatedness. Continue to play with people for years, because I enjoy it. I enjoy it. Even if I'm not even if I lose some confidence, that relatedness will still make sense you have those experiences yourself. You like we feel like he's motivated me to research. years decades. Feels like it describes the way you're motivated. That's just a little bit complicated. In the birth gamify paper, you may have noticed you're paying close attention and they use the same three but they call this one never waited.

Unknown 27:42
Because why not be as confusing as possible. What do you think? Is that the same idea by a different word? This is a demonstration paper that you read. We're talking about purchase the same as relatedness. Right? So what is purpose?

Unknown 28:11
Maybe going to talk about how we design

Unknown 28:26
our communities so being part of a community is really more than related. As part of that, of course, there's always going to be overlap the purpose, what's the thing going on? And it can happen?

Unknown 28:48
By helping people, right, what is data? Purpose means I'm going to do some I even it doesn't have to be sacred children. It can be you know, this is an asset that's going to make life more convenient. And make it easier to find coffee and Starbucks whatever right for the purpose, that you're motivated to do things that you think will actually improve your life. Like the world, right? Aren't you like that? And that's an intrinsic motivation. If I feel like the thing that I'm doing is important. Then of course I'm going to do right so I don't have examples to analyze, but SPP I just wanted to get it out there. Under all the other theories, any questions about it? I know we will. We're going to just get right. Right. So let's go through this shall be anybody done these before? No one. Maybe they don't need as much undergrad. So these are the original six. There are others that we'll get to in a second that reciprocity, scarcity, authority consistency, like gaining consensus, I'm sorry, that was slightly blurrier when I realized okay, so this comes from American scholar named Robert Shelby. And let's see if we can talk through them really quickly. So the first one is reciprocity.

Unknown 30:32
What don't you understand the reciprocity. So these are principles of how people get persuaded to do. I could use reciprocity as a tool to persuade. So how does that work if you understand that concept?

Unknown 31:03
Okay, if you get some good lessons that's true, but you want to make sure we can distinguish that from what might be right, because in a way there's overlap. It's muddy, but I want to try to do the best we can on that.

Unknown 31:35
Noticed that you give me a friend

Unknown 31:49
basically, built on a sort of depth system, but not in literal death like that. I feel like Right. So you know why to help your friends move because you're a nice person, but also because you think if I need to move I won't feel guilty. Right. So that's the idea of reciprocity is that we are motivated to do things when we feel like we might owe them to someone else. So you're absolutely right when you set aside to doing something nice, but let's jump to like, what's the difference between reciprocity?

Unknown 32:35
What's an example of lightning the way of using Lightning as a persuasive Where does someone just want to explain what they think the ideas was like?

Unknown 32:54
So why would have been a movie star, motivate or persuade?

Unknown 33:06
Do you think of other examples of

Unknown 33:15
why is that an example of what's popular?

Unknown 33:28
Sharing their personal experience.

Unknown 33:31
I mean, reciprocity boils down to a feeling of care wasn't boiled down to a very simple feeling. I have a warm feeling and that makes me want to do so. Another example is to know the people who are in Starbucks that baristas really friendly maybe what do you do? In all right, maybe they're being friendly. Maybe there's a friendly person, but there's something about the fact that they are like my wife. Right? It's always going on really, really early in the morning or the hours when they are like, Oh, I really want to get your grip for you. He's so happy with that and having that major like

Unknown 34:21
you have taken care of and I'm gonna come back to the Starbucks every time. Right? That's

Unknown 34:30
just thinking, you know, the salesman was nice. Maybe he's tricking you, but like, that's the difference. This can be nice too. But here, it'd be nice to have something here. It's just for the students or cute or whatever. Right? What's scarcity?

Unknown 35:08
Yeah, you guys are doing great. I want to make sure other people are also giving their opinions about what they understood the readings. The scarcity is the idea that I'm motivated to do this thing because I think I'm gonna lose right? So I know we're gonna be gone. Only through up this celebs tomorrow. Scarcity, better app now. Pretty simple. I get authority What's that? How is that a motivational tool? I see.

Unknown 35:52
Authority and motivation.

Unknown 35:59
We tend to obey people who we think we get respected. Experts for example, I might take medical advice on doctors I'll do this. The reason you're motivated is not because of the property or if you like your doctor because you're pretty straightforward. Consistency. How does that work as a motivation?

Unknown 36:44
Okay, so part of it is the repetition, but it's actually based more on. Repetition is only one way or the other we like to be good at stuff and incompetence. We like autonomy, as you know what else we love our own behavior. We like to behave in ways. So how can we use that to motivate one way is that if you designate a behavior as consistent, I'm going to want to do that. You can think of other ways

Unknown 37:33
so if you're going to do something you probably like when somebody will call you and say I was about for this. He said yes. Is jointly obliged to do the same.

Unknown 37:49
Work consistency is you kind of feel the sense of commitment that things that you said you were going to do, right, so why can't you just get the vote? You are more likely to feel bad if you are not consistent with what you search. For. Once I get you as a customer. Might I be able to do certain things to try to keep you as a customer, like treat you like you're part of our family? Right? That kind of stuff is all over the place? Yes.

Unknown 38:34
Okay, great turkey every day for a month. Exactly. So I can go with one of these consensus. Which one of these do you think is store giving free cookies everyday reciprocity? My life force my cookies any other way.

Unknown 39:14
What do you think? About what's going to happen at the end? Now I want my cookie, maybe because of the rest of the reciprocity. Actually, I need at least three

Unknown 39:36
months worth of cookies doesn't seem very scarce. 32 guns I'm like we're like, maybe there see that? Yeah. Especially if you call up with an email like, Thank you for taking over our free package of our newest chocolate chip batch or whatever. Then you're kind of hit number. Okay. Last one, consensus what's concerns here? How is consensus used as a motivational strategy according

Unknown 40:07
it's like a social pressure on a single person. If need be heard if a person behaves differently from the firm's or the environment. Sure, there'll be that person judged. This arouse a sense of insecurity. Yes.

Unknown 40:25
This one also I think the reading calls it social. This is part of the problem. Yes, that's the idea is that I'm motivated in comparison to other people. And if everybody's doing it, I'm like feeling like what if I'm not sure whether I should do it? I might look how is everybody doing? Right? One of the ways we understand the rules of society. This is where I live. Okay, so those are the original sets that go back. I think it's the 80s on the first of them and then he

Transcribed by https://otter.ai