Unknown 0:00
Just like being an international, the idea of network effects, there's the more people who who participate in this network who join this network, the more valuable the network is to everyone. Right? Like the factors or network effects, or gig parts, or platforms are the network effects part of the value of iMessage The more people use iMessage more valuable. I have an Android phone and my kids are iPhone people. I can't communicate with them over Wi Fi because iMessage is proprietary like the network effects keep me out. Okay, I'm going to win me. What about WhatsApp, WhatsApp and network effects? If you use WhatsApp, you benefit from more and more people using that's what about YouTube? Yes. What about Facebook? What about AirDrop? What about what browsers maybe not the web browser, but the more people use the web, the more valuable that network is to us. So participating in it through the web browser makes the web browser more valuable. Right, the more web content there is, the more valuable that number is to all of us. Zoom. Same time. What about dual mobile doesn't matter how many people use dual mobile? Does it improve the value of dual mobile and has more users? Not for the users for dual mobile? I guess it does. What about bancaires? Doesn't matter if we all have Bank of China or Bank of America? No network effects, right. Network effects are the three things in the industry in a sec definition, which is the first article I had you read. That's really say things matter. Are the intermediary the centrality of data and the network effects. Now I think there's more to it than that. I think the corporate parliamentary kind of talks about that. I think that programmable the algorithm you know, some of these other ideas seem pretty central. But these are the three that's trying to sack really thinks about and let's think about how that plays out and what difference that makes. Before you do that, let's define a different word. What is platform zation?

Unknown 2:42
I'm going to spell the American way rather than the European way that it spells it in all of your meetings. I don't know why. Imperialism is a British word. It's pretty pretty hard to I guess, but what's platform is ation. Let's compare compared to what a platform is. If a platform is a digital online intermediary that uses data and enjoys network effects, platform innovation has worked.

Unknown 3:25
Brian,

Unknown 3:26
they get similar to like the concept of the mediatization where it's the idea where forms are sort of embedded into sort of emphasize or it could also be linked to I think the readings mentioned something about how economic and cultural factors are tied to the design. Okay.

Unknown 3:56
Another word for embedded. That's in one of the definitions is the idea of sort of the penetration of platforms into other spaces, right. So can we think of examples organization like ways in which take the economic and cultural side but aside from just thinking about the idea of platforms, by that definition, these kinds of wares being embedded or penetrating into other areas. Think of examples of

Unknown 4:43
falls into these platforms are our reliance on these platforms for everyday activities, but in this example, our reliance on these platforms for communication

Unknown 4:57
Okay, so think about communication has been around since before platforms before digital before online, right? But what is communication link these days? How much does it depend on the embeddedness for penetration of platforms into our everyday communication practices? In other words, how much do you go through a platform in order to communicate?

Unknown 5:24
Once you started thinking about not complete because we're not communicating over platform right this moment, but a lot of our communication practices or cultural branches of communication are now embedded into platforms, their data gathering, their logic, their power, right? That seems like especially when we move away from the people that we're in, when we all live in small villages, we didn't mean platforms as we move around the world and we graduate from school and keep in touch with people we keep more and more and more of the way that we connect with humans is possible. What else do you think? Are?

Unknown 6:12
okay

Unknown 6:17
to use, in general, generate contests and content as a comedian, so they can generate their avatars, or they can produce your own games on your blogs. Those are labor for companies without employees not being important.

Unknown 6:42
Okay, so there's actually a lot of stuff out there not just one idea, right? So think about all the things that we now produce through platforms. Anybody ever made a video on YouTube? Or made a video on tick tock, but also all the communications that we produce? All of the data that we produce, just so that social media can know more about us the friend list that we produce, and what other sorts of labor production things are embedded in platforms didn't necessarily used to be so yeah. When did his LinkedIn platform what do we produce on LinkedIn?

Unknown 7:36
Okay, the production of the self, all the way back to the self and identity unit that we did like, second third week. How much of what we produce as ourself do we do embedded in platforms like LinkedIn? Like any social media profile that you have, like even the way you produce it through your communication? We produce ourselves and communicate through platforms that's pretty deep embedding in in platform isation. What are the kinds of labor and other kinds of platforms that aren't just communication platforms like we've been thinking social media and YouTube and that kind of stuff, but we also are thinking about like Amazon does Amazon have any kind of production or labor embedded in it? That wasn't platform eyes before, like actions that we used to take in previous versions of society that we now do through platforms?

Unknown 8:39
The whole e Commerce Industry is just

Unknown 8:44
Yes, the fact that there's a T in front of cars is essentially a platform as a nation, we always bought and sold things or bartered or did whatever, all the way back to the case. But now we do it so much through platforms. And another way platform integration is you haven't bought anything like through Facebook or through WeChat or through, you know, any other kind of platform that's designed for something other than being forced selling. That's platform position to like bringing our shopping into Facebook. We're actually bringing Facebook into our shopping if he wants you to platform position as like the platforms are coming to get me there's another kind of platform which you read a little bit about, which is like gig and sharing economy platforms. Booking is kind of like this, but So Uber Airbnb, those kinds of things are those platforms. You think there's any platform as ation and production of labor and those kinds of platforms? And I don't know how much you guys are having these battles where you're from, but in California, we had a law passed recently, we literally were asked to decide whether the employees of Uber were employees or whether they were contractors, which matters for like, how they're going to be paid and what kind of benefits they get. And we had to vote on this and decide like, what kind of labor are you doing if you drive an Uber Are you doing the same kind of labor as I work for a company called Uber? Are you doing kind of labor? I'm like, Hey, would you mow my lawn? Here's 10 bucks or like some other thing, like defining what that is entirely through the fact that this platform called Uber came around and designated something that we used to call taxis and said we're going to platform is that we're going to provide a platform where drivers and passengers can connect and does that have network effects. The more people who participate in Uber, the more valuable it is absolutely different than taxis maybe. Right. And so that really changes the way we think about production and labor and how much people will get paid. The gig economy What about the sharing economy, Airbnb, that change what we produce and labor right? That bringing the hotel industry bringing platforms into the hotel industry, but then also that we now our house, become something like a hotel like all of those changes, where the platform logic and the platform economy and the platform the collection power comes into other environments. And in one of the readings, the definition that good is the penetration of infrastructures, economic processes and governmental frameworks of digital platforms in different economic sectors and spheres of life. So that's another way of saying what you just said, right? The infrastructures like the digital, literal digital platform in a sense of the app and how the app of say Uber is has an infrastructure to connect drivers, economic processes, because you pay through Uber governmental frameworks, how in California designates whether Uber drivers what kind of employees they are on digital platforms in different economic sectors and spheres of life. So that's one embeddedness in the penetration the second part of that definition is as well as the reorganization of cultural practices and imaginations around these platforms. reorganization of cultural practices, so our practice of communication, or practice of shopping, or practice of getting rides or practice of deciding where to stay when we go to another city, there's real cultural practices and economic activity that also get embedded into the logic of the platforms. And all of that stuff becomes data. For algorithms, probably the main algorithmic function like there is the connection function, but there's also the how do I turn this data into mining function?

Unknown 13:16
Right,

Unknown 13:17
I just had a quick question about the platform. So I think earlier they mentioned with the platform ambition definitionally mentioned that concept of infrastructure. Yes. And I my assumption is that it's kind of referred to as the digital infrastructure, but what does that also have supplied? So you say the physical infrastructure in which this allows the facilitation of this communication? So say for example, we stopped such as WhatsApp or iMessage, maybe like a telephone pole. Like is that part of the infrastructure?

Unknown 13:49
Yes, absolutely. And we're actually literally talking about infrastructure next week, and like it's the internet cables that run. It's the software that manages the different users. It's the phones on which you run those things. It is the the towers that give you the signal, it's the Wi Fi routers, it's all that stuff. And you know, Uber, can, can platform eyes, our transportation, by taking this logic and building an infrastructure which in its case, is essentially software using all of that other physical infrastructure to completely change the way that we can rise. So absolutely needs one of these rents are about to walk next, we're going to talk next week about like the cables that run under the ocean floor to connect them than, you know, the environmental impacts. That's all okay. All right. So, so far clear on platforms, and clear on platforms ation. So you define platforms this way and then we throw them into all these other environments where they didn't used to be and the things they changed. Okay, so let's dig a little deeper into some of the implications of this

Unknown 15:15
What about the aspect of planning organization, is there a way in which it isn't just into cultural practice and economic practices and so forth, but the way in which platforms end up in other digital environments that they weren't a part of originally.

Unknown 15:38
It's like the idea. I think the readings they gave an example of like, like the app market, or like the app store, where it's you know, you have apps for a different tech big corporations be found on the Apple App Store, but it's like a different corporation, or different corporations altogether.

Unknown 15:59
So think about what kinds of apps you're gonna find there. You're gonna find apps that are platforms, but you know what else you're gonna find there? Yeah, absolutely. talked about that on platforms. If you have a bank, you don't have an app. Pretty much done. Like I literally just for lunch, went to Chipotle. And I haven't Chipotle app on my phone. And it did a little beep beep because I want the points to go to Chipotle enough and materials and I'm gonna get some free stuff later, right. That's super platform position, because Chipotle is not a platform. Restaurant is a restaurant platform. Does it have network effects? Do I benefit from more people eating Chipotle, other than it stays in business? No, not really. Right. And it doesn't really serve as an intermediary other than between me and my worksheet. Right. But it's platformers because I have the app and if I did, they didn't have the app as an option and I wouldn't like Chipotle as much you know, you can't really be a business without some kind of which is mediated and intermediated by things like app stores. But also, did you ever log into a website using your Google ID? That was not a Google website? Or did you ever see the white button for Facebook on a website that was not actually owned by Facebook? Isn't that a kind of platform position to it's one of things that the reasons you're talking about is like once you start to base everything on data. It's about getting bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger like this incredible. Expansion. And when you have network effects, remember what makes you what makes it better, the more people are in the network. So you have this sort of built in necessity to grow not that every corporation doesn't trade they do but to grow your network and one way to grow your network. Is to start to stick tentacles of your platform into places that it wasn't otherwise, why do they want you to log into non Google services using your Google so they can get right away? Don't ever do that. Right? download something else with your Google account. Because then you're just telling Google all about that. And also, if you use your Google like account to log into random shopping guide.com and rapping shopping guide gets gets packed now, your Google so don't take anymore. And why do they have Facebook Likes on pages that have nothing to do with Facebook? Because Facebook wants data from the stuff you do elsewhere, which is also why they track you across all the websites that you use on your computer that runs Facebook, right? That's another aspect of organization is this it? The network effects benefit so much that we want to grow the network and we're so hungry for data? Because data is money that we're going to go into areas that are not our own in order to try to get more network effects, more data. There's another way just pockets, growth and platform isation. So let me ask you a couple more questions about what our platforms

Unknown 19:34
What about Disney? Is Disney a platform?

Unknown 19:46
Yes. We Disney, gigantic, multinational conglomerate Corporation. Is it a platform yes, there's some nouns and classification is hard. So is Disney an intermediary connecting multiple entities?

Unknown 20:19
Does Disney have network effects? Do I as a participant in Disney benefit from there being more people at Disney? Not if you've ever been to Disneyland? There are fewer people that better than so it's Disney

Unknown 20:43
consider as a creative

Unknown 20:44
streaming like for others. It's

Unknown 20:51
it's a media company. I agree. Is Disney. A streaming platform isn't just the pluses of streaming your way of saying let's back up Netflix streaming platform platform. Okay, so Disney plus same as Netflix. Okay, what does that mean? A Disney is a platform

Unknown 21:18
you can have a company with just a platform that has a platform in it. What about let's go back to Amazon for a sec. Amazon's a platform right? Walmart platform as an app, well, not everyone has an app. So we started there, right? I just Walmart a platform. It's pressurized because there's an app. It also has a website as it connects What about target your shopping targets? Is target what?

Unknown 22:01
It's like a physical company happens to have a platform.

Unknown 22:07
Okay, so that's the thing we can have. We can have companies that are not platforms. But they have a platform with the breeding called Platform instances. It's like Disney. making animated movies does that feel like a platform? owning multiple parks is definitely a platform. But it was definitely time for him. Yeah. So it's not really a platform company but it has a platform instance.

Unknown 22:44
I think yes. First it started as a supermarket that has no brands and last door or like a shopping mall, but like it gets more sorts of brands inside this a bit I think for different brands, and I think it is also true for targets and Walmart like they don't have the platform for other brands and products getting.

Unknown 23:12
So are you saying there's a network effect in something like a supermarket because the more brands that participate more than shopper benefit Yes.

Unknown 23:24
I think it is like this beautiful things because like therefore brands and attracts more customers and more customers and you're willing to

Unknown 23:33
what about the data requirements if that's requirements

Unknown 23:38
I think that is also true

Unknown 23:40
for market. How to supermarkets collect your data,

Unknown 23:48
actually know Walmart is one of the most advanced like data like collecting like this, because like it may apply you took one thing on the shelf, it is immediately uploaded to the cloud. So there's a whole data class behind the

Unknown 24:06
scenes actually whatever ones and even if you don't anybody like what I did at Chipotle today, anybody's swipe your routes card and your bonds card or you're clever when you buy groceries, but you think they do that tie you to the end when they beat the little thing it says what they're selling that's a question and then when you say I'd like to discount they go thank you very much, Colin for telling us you're the winner bottle biscuits, right so there's data collection there too, and there's network contents really tricky. But this is actually an example of platformer zation because supermarkets were not probably platforms before. But then they're competing in a marketplace that has Amazon, which feels super platforming, and so they start to do things like really intense data tracking, in order to compete by turning more and more and more than just by being more indistinguishable from platforms. I think that's because supermarkets are not digital or online. That they don't count as the kind of platform that's tryna stack. These other papers are really talking about, but he's definitely hard to make distinctions. Right. I know the classification problem. It's really hard to say why Amazon is and funds or Ralph's or target other than maybe there's third party sellers on Amazon.

Unknown 25:33
Like Disney also not exactly qualify as a platform, because it doesn't that existed before platforms were a thing. But then if the reason why it set up those online platforms such as Disney Plus it was in response to other streaming platforms. The what's the process?

Unknown 25:52
I think a lot of people would say Disney is not a platform that Disney Plus is a platform service of this. Here's another way to think about this. Let's take one more example. Apple's biggest company in the world platform.

Unknown 26:19
interact on their own infrastructure.

Unknown 26:24
It's not an intermediary infrastructure at its core, what is the core amount of hardware? Computers? Right? But does it also have the Disney problems? Maybe there's no problem the Disney characteristic Disney Plus is a streaming platform. Do you know what else is the streaming platform? Apple TV plus? Can you think of any other platform instances? As they call them?

Unknown 26:57
Or like platform services. Apple provides the App Store for the audience, right? So there's a nice few platforms embedded within a company that we don't think of as a platform. To do anything else. We just said iMessage and AirDrop or iCloud is cloud computing platform. App Store, for sure. Cloud computing platform

Unknown 27:43
came out one day isn't what other people think. I thought about an AI I missing our clocks.

Unknown 28:08
It can be it can be What about speaking of our alternative Amazon, which we agree is an E commerce platform, by the way, also has a streaming platform. Two of them one trivial one for music. Amazon has cloud computing you guys know about Amazon Web Services, AWS. That is That is probably the single biggest cloud computing service of them all. And lots of other platforms like Uber use the Amazon infrastructure. Both the physical and the software infrastructure. Because when Amazon provides they got a bunch of servers so they could sell stuff. And they got a bunch of data processing software so they can figure out what stuff to sell. And then they went Oh, my gosh, look at all the stuff we got. Let's let other people have this for rent. And so they rent both the hardware and the server space. And the software that does all the analysis to lots and lots and lots of companies. Does that sound like a platform? Doesn't iCloud do something similar and doesn't Google Drive and the various services that are involved with Google Drive like Google Docs for those platform platforms? A lot of the people who work in this area would say that all cloud and cloud computing is a platform service because it is a digital online service that provides an intermediary service. Monitor you can collaborate on your documents. You can store your your stuff, you can share your photos, right. Definitely involved user data, and it has network effects because the more people who use Google Docs or iCloud or whatever, the more valuable it is to all of us. Right. So why do people think that cloud computing or AWS for sure is absolutely the primary service we think of all the things Apple does? This is part of the deal with platform positions here. The Disney Apple Amazon kind of model is not just doing the one thing. How many different kinds of platforms could we name for Apple? There in the App Store platform? They have cloud computing kind of platform? They have streaming platforms? What about Google? I can't even think of them. I have to write them down. Google's got a streaming platform. It's a little ones called Guy YouTube. Right. They also use their social media platform, but they didn't say Google has the Cloud Platform. What else does Google App Store?

Unknown 31:09
Google Android, Google. Yes. Actually the biggest app store in the world. And it's, most of you have iPhones because

Unknown 31:24
you were the only cool people what's interesting is, is that you know that Android is like 70% of the worldwide market. And Apple has dominance in the American market, but mostly not the worldwide market. So it is interesting how many American students from international backgrounds have an apple it's interesting how that works out. If any of you ever have Android phones just came when you come to us it was the American zoom and get those Apple products. Thinking about all these different platforms that are embedded in a company like Apple or in a company like Google, why did they do that? It's part of the platform as a nation it's part of not only is it embedding and penetrating platform logic into other spaces, but it's also grabbing all these different kinds of platforms and conglomerating them so it's a conglomeration is part of business always, right. There's all kinds of businesses that can collaborate that have nothing to do with platforms. But the conglomeration of platform services within companies that may or may not original event but but even better, which started as a platform Facebook, still conglomerated all kinds of other platforms. It's just got other social media platforms. Is is metal a platform or is met a company that has multiple platform services. Right so this idea is sort of super platform.

Unknown 33:21
The Disney probably isn't important, but it has a platform, at least Warren Google, originally a search company to search upon.

Unknown 33:36
Other people wouldn't say gas starts as a certain platform, identity conference, Gmail, Google Maps, YouTube, all the other platforms. So that's part of our platform. zation works to inflate this expansion into various.

Unknown 34:03
The book also called the Super platform and MSP multi sided platform

Unknown 34:21
why does it matter? to Google? They have all these different platforms, platform services, they're still multi sided.

Unknown 34:43
All this platform instances that are part of Google, all talk, the same Google more platform services you have, the more you are an intermediary connecting all these different entities, the more you can get the data that is at the heart of those connections. The more data you have to

Unknown 35:19
make sense. So another quote from the reading I like, it allows platform operators this kind of conglomeration super platform optimization allows platform operators to transform virtually every instance of human interaction into data rating, paying, searching, watching, talking, friending, dating, driving, walking serious all of those things are datafied Piper. Walking is verified. Google knows a lot about blockchain, especially if you have a Fitbit. Or also if you use Google Maps. You're walking is verified and platform exercising, okay, so it's sort of similar idea to mediatization when it's the corporate commodification of data with a network of friends, leaving in therapy questions about this?

Unknown 36:59
Alright, so let's talk a little bit about the third thing I want to cover really quickly before we take a break, and then we'll do a project which is where the platform's get their power from. So once you have this conversation, we've already kind of replied feminization is also a kind of monopolization, isn't it?

Unknown 37:28
And how do we get to monopolization right? Why did these companies get so much power?

Unknown 37:41
Well, couple reasons and start with one of them. Network effects. Network effects help monopolization?

Unknown 37:59
Is the idea of the more people say rely on on a consistent basis? I think the reading mentioned but what like if someone's going to put on average, like a person will probably only have like 40 apps at a time in which they would actually pay attention to. So that sets you if you can sort of concentrate that the users into like a single platform that you have more control and power or over same type of data. And

Unknown 38:32
so definitely there's a benefit to the companies. Is there a user side reason?

Unknown 38:38
Yeah. So what's up like I don't really use this app before. everyone shows up every time I want to connect to someone else. Okay, I would add, so I have to download this because everyone, like around these days. I don't use this. I cannot put next week.

Unknown 38:58
So there's a price to you for not being in a network that has we know what's going on with Twitter, and Elon Musk and people being mad. You see that? The influence of network effects on that situation? Like for example this weekend, this is my personal encounter with this this weekend is a conference my favorite conference, association internet research which is a great great, great conference about research. They used to live tweet the whole conference by causing issues with the way that x is winners run and Eli and so forth. Big West fat, but guess what they're having trouble hearing. We're not using Twitter anymore. We're having trouble finding out where to go. And the reason why is never the value of Twitter, or Facebook, particularly Facebook, which is the largest social media in the world, is that's where everybody is. And so that means first of all, just like you said, Jamie that's where I gotta go if I want to be in that network I gotta go with that network is but also what's the cost of the network is huge network

Unknown 40:31
I quit Facebook, and I gotta find all my friends in somewhere else and they're not all going to be in the same place. And I you know, I do like the connection and I don't want to lose that. That's another way of saying the network effects the company. Right? The network is so big and I benefit so much from the fact that this is where everyone is. Every time somebody gets mad at Mark Zuckerberg or Elon Musk or wherever they get married and everybody says let's delete Facebook. Let's quit Twitter. And it doesn't work. People leave but they don't have anywhere else to go because the other place doesn't have the network effects. Because the value of the network the value of Facebook, is there just one at all and kindness every day. I wonder if there is one anymore, but if there is, it's because that's where everyone else. That's the it's not the interface. It's not the way the app works. It's not which affordances you're allowed to use all that is part of a big reason why you're on Facebook, because the people are on Facebook. The reason you're on Twitter is because the people are on Twitter, et cetera, et cetera. Don't you think that gives them power? monopolistic network effects are innately monopolies. Amazon, the reason we all use Amazon is because you can buy everything.

Unknown 41:51
And actually, let's talk about other instances like I think the first one is more like from the individual perspective, but actually I think the network effects just like shake the whole industry. Everyone was back in China, there was a similar app as a like, like we were at a celebrity. And it was like, really going has a very infamous sexism scandal. So I decided to to just delete this app. But I only just how cold out for like four months because like, if you don't have this, there's no way for you to get a path. Like if you're like in old days, you can just play back the taxi because everyone every driver is using this app. So if you don't have this African

Unknown 42:36
Uber a lot of people were really uncomfortable with the labor practices and Uber underpaying employees not offering health insurance. A lot of that was talking about with California laws. They spent a lot of money to try to get people to vote a certain way and a lot of people got mad and Uber and it made you move to lift The lift is only a little better. Right? And then at some point, it's like oh, I can't get a ride anymore because there is no other network except the one I don't want to be on. What about things like search how many companies are really in the search game?

Unknown 43:19
You can name multiple search engines. It's Google. And wait seven years on where Google is more or less a monopoly on search. Why? Because of network effects there. It's also because their algorithm is better than others. But the network effects of Google are so big because it's better. It connects us to app stores. This is in the reading how many companies are in the App Store game? duopoly either Apple or Microsoft tried to get in that for a while. And anybody ever had Windows Phone? Microsoft Windows operating system? No way You don't anymore because he couldn't pick up the network. So Microsoft is doing great. Microsoft is also a huge conglomeration and has some platforms, Cloud Platform, stuff like that, but they couldn't build up a network effects around that particular operating system. So we're down to two app stores. What about advertising? Your advertising platforms?

Unknown 44:41
Yes, but Tik Tok is a social media platform that is monetized by advertising.

Unknown 44:57
Anybody know about a little company called AdSense?

Unknown 45:09
Ever heard of AdSense? AdSense is a company that provides digital ad matching services for other companies. So you get a website and you want to monetize your website. You can put the AdSense code into your website. And what will happen is when a user visits your websites, the code will go okay, you're an 18 to 25 year old woman living in Southern California who has previously expressed an interest in makeup. And then it'll go and find ads that are trying to find that exact person and they'll pick one and put it on the websites. So matches dataplatform 19 advertising to potential ad viewers on a website or something? Yes, that's not the best platform and those ad sets. Correct. Do you know where most of the advertising I don't know if this is the worldwide market? I know it's true in the United States. Almost all of the advertising in the United States goes to guess how many companies when guess what they are? Google and math. And that's a really big issue in the United States and other places, particularly here, because our news media is so private, like owned by companies rather than funded by the government. That when the ad revenue moves away from all of that and it goes to Google and to Manhattan's sort of Amazon, it means it takes it away from all the media that it used to support that we use the likes of the newspaper industry, not necessarily be the case. But the news industry in the United States is in desperate trouble because it can't get the ad revenue reviews to get because two platforms are taking a duopoly that's the kind of stuff right? How many are there. Amazon, Google, Microsoft, you get the you can maybe get up to three but there's a lot of industries that are dominated by the same people over and over and over again. Have you heard Mrs. Ford per second? You've heard this is leading to you've heard of this graph. And you know what that means? Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple, Microsoft. And it's interesting. It's actually this is meta now, so it's kind of dumb. Mr. Johnson is kind of the way basically those five mega corporations dominate dominates so much of all of the platforms. And the platform position means that it has some control over you're walking and you're eating and all the things I just read you it means these five companies with one exception, and that is there are a lot of Asian Chinese companies who are chipping away at this world war.

Unknown 48:27
We can have a conversation about why does Tencent the platform Weibo Weibo my form Yes, right. So there's a lot of similar things going on but but to a different degree because we're still located headquartered

Unknown 48:52
in California, where's apple? We're saying Facebook meta. California. Where is Amazon? Seattle. Where's Microsoft? Three California, two in Seattle. All the US west coast. So other than China, the dominance of the United States in in the platform market, which means in all that other stuff that gets platform eyes. I was making jokes about imperialism earlier but platform Imperialism is a real thing. And even how many of you before you came to America used some platform or some adverse on service from one of those five West Coast American companies. Yummy Americans use any of the Chinese companies we still have an imperialism issue. Okay, I think that's everything I wanted to cover before the break. Let's take a break and I reserve the right to find something in my notes that I forgot to mention. And then we're going to do some more digging around in our apps and thoughts. Why don't we take I'm kind of tired you want like a 20 minute break? Yes. Vigorous. 20 minutes, quarter till Okay. Plenty of time to your costume.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai